51
Other Gods
2
gravity to bizarre caves where glowing gems breathe like 
living things. She became the first deep gnome, forestalling the Bleaching by embracing this strange new world. Made a godling by Torag in exchange for a magical gem called the Deepinglight, she is the patron of all svirfneblin and (to a lesser extent) all bleachlings. In art, she is depicted as a typical deep gnome, except her hair and eyes shine with the color of a thousand gems. Her holy symbol is a gem cut in the shape of a six-sided die showing seven pips.
Goblin Hero-Gods
Most goblins ultimately worship Lamashtu, though tribes of the Demon Mother also recognize four minor barghest deities (each stolen from Asmodeus and adopted by the goddess) and worship them as great heroes in her service. These barghest heroes found that when they killed mortal creatures, the drops of blood turned into goblins, and they quickly rallied these new creatures to serve them. When the Prince of Darkness abandoned the search for his stolen property, Lamashtu created a realm for them in the Abyss, and in exchange for this gift they gave her the loyalty of the tribes they created. Now the goblins primarily worship Lamashtu, but some rare tribes may rate one of these heroes more highly than the others, or even above Lamashtu herself.
Hadregash : Strongest and greatest of the barghest 
heroes, he was the first to organize goblins into tribes.
Venkelvore : Consort to Hadregash, she is the fattest and 
most beautiful of the demigods. She is so obsessed with feeding herself that her minions sometimes suffer for it.
Zarongel : Blessed with hair of fire, he is the most 
wolf like of the demigods. He taught the goblins how to kill dogs and tame wolves.
Zogmugot : Ugly but keen-eyed, she is skilled at finding 
and hoarding treasure, though she lost many minions to the waves when she was scavenging from the sea.
Halfling Gods
Half ling priests usually worship Desna, Erastil, or Sarenrae, though half lings as a whole tend to venerate Abadar, Iomedae, and Shelyn, with a surprising number worshiping Norgorber. They view these gods through a half ling’s eye, depicting them as small folk in art. They acknowledge two deities who have few or no followers outside the half ling race, and just as half lings like to make friends with larger humanoids, each of these deities is paired up with one of the major gods. Half lings who worship one of these racial deities usually also worship the deity’s better-known counterpart, even going so far as to select domains from both deities.
Chaldira Zuzaristan (The Calamitous Turn) : Even 
outside of half ling communities, followers of Desna share stories of the goddess’s impulsive friend Chaldira, prone to Other Cults
Some mortals look to angels for inspiration in their lives. Others 
throw in their lot with demons, devils, or daemons. Those living in harsh environments may worship genies or other elemental lords (some good, some evil, some unknowingly alien). While these incredibly powerful beings may grant spells or other powers in exchange for this service, they are not technically gods and thus describing them is outside the purview of this book. For general information on these beings, see the Religion chapter of the Pathfinder Chronicles Campaign Setting . 
Note that Asmodeus is a devil and a god, and Lamashtu is both a demon and a goddess; they are the only two known to straddle both categories, though others come close and there may be a few of similar power and ability who have not yet made their mark on Golarion. Each of these powerful entities grant their clerics access to four domains, as detailed in the Pathfinder Chronicles Campaign Setting.
Another category of cult exists as well, for there are potent 
entities who dwell in the deepest reaches of the Material Plane itself or beyond its sane dimensions. These entities are often referred to, collectively, as the Great Old Ones. Mortals who worship these alien beings believe they shall one day return to the Material Plane and unmake the world. Whether these beings are related to or rivals of Rovagug and Zon-Kuthon is unknown, but their power is real and on par with divine magic from “normal” deities. They do not care how mortals use the powers they grant, but most members of the “Old Cults” are insane and very dangerous. Clerics of the Old Cults typically have access to the domains of Chaos, Knowledge, Madness, Rune, and Void (see page 51). Their favored weapon is usually the dagger.
Scalykind Domain
Granted Power
Rebuke or command animals (reptilian creatures and snakes only) as an evil cleric rebukes or commands undead.Use this ability a total number of times per day equal to 3 + Charisma modifier.
Scalykind d omain S PellS
1. Magic fang
2. Animal trance *
3. Greater magic fang
4. Poison
5. Animal growth *
6. Eyebite
7. Creeping doom (composed of tiny snakes)
8. Animal shapes *
9. Shapechange
*Affects ophidian or reptilian creatures only.