58
Pathfinder Chronicles: Gods and Magic
and virtue —enough to usually ensure that a mother and 
newborn both live through a difficult birth.
If Pharasma is your patron, you may use the icon to cast 
augury  once per day. At will as a standard action, you can 
touch a pregnant woman and know if she is carrying a boy or 
girl and whether it will be a single birth or multiple. Once per day, you may consecrate a corpse so if it is buried within 24 hours it cannot be reanimated as an undead.
ConStruCtion
requirements  Craft Wondrous Item, augury , consecrate , cure 
minor wounds , resistance , virtue ; Cost 1,750 gp, 140 XP
inheritor’ S gA untlet
Aura  faint evocation; Cl  5th
Slot hand; Price  2,700 gp; Weight  1 lb.
deSCriPtion
This metal gauntlet is the sort appropriate for wearing with chainmail, though versions for leather or full plate exist. Affixed to the wrist is a white cloth with a longsword embroidered in gold thread. Once per day, you can speak a command word to give the weapon you hold in that hand (or the gauntlet itself) a +1 enhancement bonus on attack and damage rolls for 1 minute.
If Iomedae is your patron, the gauntlet lets you count any 
sword you hold in that hand as your holy symbol. Once per day, you may speak a command word and give any sword you hold the powers of an evil outsider bane weapon for 1 minute; this effect ends if you drop the sword or remove the gauntlet. If you use your finger to draw Iomedae’s symbol on any solid surface, the symbol glows as brightly as a candle for 1 hour or until you draw the symbol elsewhere (whichever comes first).
ConStruCtion
requirements  Craft Wondrous Item, light , magic weapon, 
summon monster I ; Cost 1,350 gp, 108 XP
key of the Se Cond vA ult
Aura  faint transmutation and conjuration (lawful); Cl  5th
Slot none; Price  3,000 gp; Weight  —
deSCriPtion
This elaborate key on a fine gold chain is always glinting even in the dimmest light. You may use it to lock (but not unlock) any nonmagical lock as if it were the proper key. Once per day, you may turn it clockwise once to activate a shield of faith upon yourself (though if you are chaotic it only provides a +1 deflection bonus).
If Abadar is your patron, the key counts as a holy symbol. 
Once per day, you may speak a command word and summon a two-headed eagle as if using summon monster II (its extra head does not give it an extra attack). This eagle obeys your commands as if you shared a common language. While the key is worn as a pendant or held in hand, you can mentally add, subtract, multiply, or divide numbers with perfect accuracy, such as for distributing treasure or other resources, calculating interest on a loan, and so on.ConStruCtion
requirements  Craft Wondrous Item, fox’s cunning , shield of 
faith, summon monster II ; Cost 1,500 gp, 120 XP
mAS k of Cutting f leSh
Aura  faint abjuration; Cl  3rd
Slot mask; Price  3,000 gp; Weight  1 lb.
deSCriPtion
This black leather mask is studded with bits of bone and 
metal, with smooth-sewn holes for eyes, mouth, and nostrils; it laces in the back with long straps and covers the entire face, leaving only the ears and back of the head exposed.  When worn, you gain a +2 resistance bonus on Fortitude saving throws.
If Zon-Kuthon is your patron, once per day you can whisper 
a command word to lash out at a target within 100 feet, slashing them with an invisible blade of force for 2d4+2 points of force damage. As a free action, you can will the mask to unlace, reshape itself into a leather cap on top of your head, or hide itself within your shirt or helm.
ConStruCtion
requirements  Craft Wondrous Item, animate rope , magic 
missile , resistance ; Cost 1,500 gp, 120 XP
night Stone of Sorro W
Aura  faint abjuration (evil); Cl  3rd
Slot neck; Price  3,300 gp; Weight  5 lb.
deSCriPtion
This black rock looks pitted and partially charred and melted; it is usually worn on a heavy chain. It gives the impression of reckless evil, more a dangerous scent than any other kind of feeling. You gain fire resistance 1 and a +1 resistance bonus on Will saves against fear. If exposed to 10 or more points of fire damage in a single round, a claw-shaped pattern faintly glows on the surface of the stone, similar to an arcane mark .
If Dahak is your patron, you may use shatter  once per day. 
At will, you can cause the claw-symbol to glow; good and evil dragons recognize the symbol as an icon of Dahak.
ConStruCtion
requirements  Craft Wondrous Item, arcane mark , remove fear , 
resist energy , shatter ; Cost 1,650 gp, 132 XP
orB of the W AyBringer
Aura  faint evocation; Cl  3rd
Slot neck; Price  3,900 gp; Weight  1 lb.
deSCriPtion
This giant pearl is carved with entwined flying dragons and strung on a fine silver chain; it changes size according to the size of the wearer so that its diameter is no greater than your thumb. Once per day, you may use a breath weapon equivalent to burning hands except it deals electricity damage instead of fire.