52
Pathfinder Chronicles: Gods and Magic
charging into battle and needing rescuing when she gets in 
over her head (elves know her as Chaldira Zuzadlara). The half lings actually recognize Chaldira as a goddess in her own right and see her as a symbol of innate half ling luck and the ability to survive despite dire circumstances, often with the help of well-placed friends. Chaldira means well but doesn’t like to think ahead, relying on good fortune and Desna’s occasional intervention to stay alive. Her holy symbol is a fine short sword with three large notches in the blade.
Thamir Gixx (The Silent Blade) : Half lings consider 
Thamir the friend, minion, or slave of Norgorber depending on how a particular tale of their “adventures” is told, though he usually plays the role of the overlooked assistant who is just as dangerous as his employer. He represents the darker side of half ling life that appeals to certain elements—cutpurses, assassins, and mistreated half lings who have been pushed too far. Most good-hearted half lings don’t like to talk about him, although the stories circulate among younger half lings. The fact that he shares his last name with the Primarch of Absalom is no coincidence, and the god has changed his name several times in the past to match that of the city’s leader. Thamir’s holy symbol is a black dagger with a white circle on the blade near the hilt.
Scalefolk Gods
Most of the intelligent scaled creatures worship one or more of these reptilian or ophidian deities, either directly or through some powerful intermediary such as a dragon or a legendary hero.
Apsu (Waybringer) : God of the metallic dragons, Apsu is 
said to be one of the first two beings in the multiverse. He and his mate Tiamat created the gods, who in turn created mortal things, including the creature Dahak who reveled in destroying. Apsu came to the Material Plane to put an end to Dahak’s rampages, but Tiamat betrayed him to heal their son. Their battle led to the ongoing conf lict between the metallic and chromatic dragons, and Apsu f led Tiamat’s claws. Dahak and the chromatic dragons pursued him through the Material Plane to Golarion, where Apsu decided to make his stand against the evil dragons.
All good dragons revere Apsu, though few are the 
sort that practice divine magic—most leave that to their smaller mortal allies and servants, some of whom forsake humanoid gods to worship the Waybringer. As his primary goal is the destruction of Dahak, mortals with no ties to the world of dragons have little need for his church. The Waybringer’s lair is the Immortal Ambulatory, a traveling demiplane with a gate to Golarion.
Dahak (The Endless Destruction) : In dragon lore, 
Dahak is one of the first gods created. While his siblings built things in the material world, he assumed a terrible form and ravaged Hell, making it a place of suffering and fire. He named the first dragon gods and shattered them in the material plane, creating the races of metallic dragons, which he hunted for sport. When Apsu came to the Material Plane to battle his evil son, he brought Dahak low, but Tiamat bargained with the dying mortal dragons, healing their wounds in exchange for Dahak’s freedom, and those who agreed became the first chromatic dragons and began the battle anew against their metallic kin.
The Endless Destruction holds no love for his creations, 
having killed and maimed many of them in his joyous rampages, and most dragons hate him in return. However, he can offer them power and immortality, and this tempting offer has swayed many evil dragons (and other creatures) to his service. Ugly, spiked, and scarred, Dahak hates his father Apsu and wishes to destroy him.
Ydersius (The Headless King) : This ancient being was 
the patron god of the all-but-forgotten race of snake-men that battled mighty Azlant and lost. Forced to hide in the Apsu Dahak Ydersius