53
Other Gods
2
Darklands with his mortal servants, 
the Serpent King was decapitated by a mighty champion, but such was the power of the god that he remained alive in two pieces. Now his mindless body thrashes recklessly, and his head is lost and presumably rotted away to a skull; but there are some that say the skull still thinks and can control a tiny measure of power, and if it and the body were ever reunited, Ydersius would heal and lead his people in an attack on the surface world.
Dead Gods
Arazni (the Red Crusader) : Nearly 
a thousand years ago, the herald of Aroden was the warrior-demigoddess Arazni, patron saint of Lastwall’s K n i g h t s  o f  O z e m  a n d  a  f i e r c e  c o m b a t a n t .  In a great battle against Tar-Baphon, the Whispering Tyrant, the Knights summoned her to champion them. The lich turned out to be far more powerful than any had thought, and when he eventually caught her, he toyed with her for days before snuffing out her life and hurling her broken body into the opposing army.
Demoralized, the Knights entombed 
her in their citadel. Decades later, the wizard-king Geb stole her corpse and reanimated her as a lich, seeing her as the only creature worthy of being his bride. Now known as the Harlot Queen, she is cut off from her former divine power and cannot hear mortal prayers, though some in Geb pray to her as an intermediary to Urgathoa. With Iomedae taking her place as Aroden’s herald and then ultimately succeeding Aroden himself, there remains very little in modern times to connect the Harlot Queen with her former glory as the Red Crusader, and only the Knights of Ozem still bear a grudge over her  ultimate fate.
Aroden (The Last Azlant) : The last true son of the 
Azlant left his mark on the world in many ways—the raising of the Starstone , his patronage of Taldor and 
that land’s conquests in his name, and his unexpected death which tore apart the magic of prophecy. Now his true clerics have migrated to Iomedae’s faith or live on without magic in the shadow of their former glory, with only a handful of doddering old human priests remaining (and an equal number of stubborn nonhuman priests). There are younger folk who claim to be of Aroden’s faith, but any magic they may have comes from an arcane source or perhaps from the few remaining magic items that haven’t yet been adopted or repurposed by the church of the Inheritor. Some believe that by channeling enough faith, the Last Azlant might live again, but realists 
point out that if this were true, it would have happened shortly after his death when he still had hundreds of thousands of active worshipers, not now when his faithful can be counted on a hand of hands.
Curchanus : Long ago, this god 
was the patron of travelers, wild beasts, and endurance. A friend and mentor to young Desna, he spent many evenings telling her stories of his travels. His main enemy was Lamashtu, who 
envied his power over beasts and coveted it for herself. The demon goddess set a trap for him, leading him on a strange wandering path into her realm where she swarmed him with horrible monsters and finally attacked in the form of a great deformed wolf, tearing his beast-dominion from him. This wound was too great for the elder deity, and as his last act he willed his power over travel to Desna.
Since this theft, wild animals 
have treated mankind as an 
outsider and an enemy rather than a part of nature, and Desna has searched far and wide to find a way to force Lamashtu to surrender Curchanus’s stolen power. Though his last priest died ages ago, ancient shrines on forgotten trails still carry a faint vestige of his power, and some learned followers of Desna whisper his name when they find such ancient places.
Out of the Void
The darkness in the gulfs between the stars 
(a region known as the Dark Tapestry) is far from a welcoming place. This cold, dark void holds terrible secrets and maddening vistas known well to priests of Groetus and the Old Cults. Their clerics have access to the Void domain, gaining powers of flight so that they might move through this void and the ability to call down monsters from beyond to do their sinister bidding.
Void Domain
Granted Power : You gain a +4 insight 
bonus on saving throws against all mind-affecting effects. Void d omian Spells
1 Feather fall
2 Levitate
3 Fly
4 Lesser planar binding
5 Overland flight
6 Planar binding
7 Reverse gravity
8 Greater planar binding
9 GateAroden