48
Pathfinder Chronicles: Gods and Magic
also provide convenient scapegoats 
when output doesn’t measure up to the expected standards. Priests of Droskar are able to craft weak sorts of magic arms and armor without the Item Creation feat, but they are of inferior quality and cannot be improved thereafter. Among the faithful there is strong competition, as one who manages to create something exceptional or innovative must beware a rival or superior stealing it or taking credit for the achievement. 
Folgrit (The Watchful Mother) : 
Torag’s wife is a patient goddess used to her husband planning and worrying too much. She is the goddess of motherhood, wives, and children, especially those whose husbands and fathers are at war. She is also the goddess of widows and orphans and does her best to keep Torag’s mind fresh so he can minimize dwarven casualties.
Grundinnar (The Peacemaker) : This glib deity is well 
practiced in breaking up fights over his sister Bolka. He mends fences, encourages dwarves to be neighborly, and makes sure that dwarves do not forget friends they haven’t seen in decades.
Kols (Oath-Keeper) : This tight-lipped god splits his 
time between following his father Torag and keeping his brother Grundinnar out of danger. He punishes those who shirk their obligations or break oaths.
Magrim (The Taskmaster) : Despite his gloomy role as 
the overseer of the dwarven afterlife, Magrim is no more dour than a typical mortal dwarf. He determines what tasks dwarf spirits must perform, including reforging worn-out souls to make them suitable for visiting the world again. He is Torag’s older brother, and he taught the first mortal dwarves how to properly commune with the gods.
Trudd (The Mighty) : Torag’s youngest son, he is the 
strongest of the dwarven gods despite his short beard. He guards his father’s hall while its lord is away.
Elf Gods
Elven faith is pantheistic, and while a particular elf might favor one of these deities over another, all are acknowledged and respected. Even elf clerics worship this way and may select their domains from different elven deities, including those of Desna, Calistria, and Nethys. However, these pantheist clerics do not gain any special spell selection or spells unique to a religion; those rewards are reserved for priests who devote themselves to a single deity.Findeladlara (The Guiding Hand) : 
Though this goddess represents art and architecture, she is more a deity of preserving existing traditions than inspiring innovation. Well-meaning but aloof, she disdains the work of the younger races and never answers the prayers of non-elves. She is always shown dressed in beautiful, classically-styled or archaic clothing, framed in an elaborate archway of mithral or living branches, and illuminated in the pale, ruddy glow of a sun just below the horizon.
Ketephys (The Hunter) : This long-
faced elven god rarely speaks unless coordinating the efforts of other 
beings in a hunt for a dangerous or 
especially prized creature. He is shown barefoot, wearing form-fitting brown and forest-green for camouf lage and to prevent snags and excess noise. He is usually accompanied by his dog Meycho and his hawk Falling Star, though he keeps them for companionship rather than assistance as he prefers to succeed or fail on his own merits.
Yuelral (The Wise) : A patron of druids and mages alike, 
Yuelral prefers the magic of the woodlands and nature to that of worked metal, force, and other artificial things. Jewelers who worship her work in wood, ivory, and leather; they polish gemstones but do not cut them. In art, she appears as an elven woman with wise eyes wearing simple garb and surrounded by f loating magical crystals similar to ioun stones . Always quick to see talent, this goddess 
welcomes half-elves into her faith.
Giant Gods
Cloud giants revere the air aspect of Gozreh, depicting 
him in immense tapestries as a mighty cloud giant called Ioz’om. He is said to have many semi-divine children (born of mortal cloud giant mothers), mostly daughters, and clan leaders claim lineage to Ioz’om through one of these bloodlines. Their legends say that the rare and wondrous f lying castles exist because an especially heroic cloud giant hero won a boon from the god or one of his children. Aggressive, evil cloud giants often worship Rovagug, those interested in magic tend to follow Nethys, and very independent ones may worship a more unusual god or none at all.
Fire giants trace their lineage back to nearly 10,000 years 
ago when the god Zursvaater offered a tribe of stone giants the gifts of fire, metal, and slaves in exchange for their worship and dominion over their souls. The tribe agreed, and Zursvaater transformed them into the first fire giants. Cut off from their ancestor spirits, they embraced worship Droskar