60
Pathfinder Chronicles: Gods and Magic
ShAd’ gorum n ugget
Aura  faint abjuration; Cl  3rd
Slot necklace; Price  4,200 gp; Weight  5 lb.
deSCriPtion
This lumpy piece of unforged iron originates from metal that 
remained cool after smelting, resisting all attempts to forge it into another shape; those who worship Gorum believe the metal is a reflection of their god’s determination and fashion this “stubborn iron” into a pendant, though it is sometimes used as a mace head or as a counterweight to a greatsword or other large weapon. When worn, you gain fire resistance 1 and +1 resistance bonus on Will saving throws.
If Gorum is your patron, once per day you may use this to 
cast chill metal . At will, you may use it to mend small metallic 
items as if using a mending  spell.
ConStruCtion
requirements  Craft Wondrous Item, chill metal , mending , 
resistance , resist energy ; Cost 2,100 gp, 168 XP
SPellSight Br ACer
Aura  faint abjuration; Cl  5th
Slot bracer; Price  2,100 gp; Weight  1 lb.
deSCriPtion
Dozens of variants of this bracer exist, but they are usually leather, always ornately patterned, and bear a single spherical polished stone or gem (typically a carbuncle, olivine, or sard) mounted near the wrist. The wearer may use detect magic once per day. When this power is used, the spherical stone or gem appears to open like a human eye. The bracer also provides a +1 resistance bonus on Will saving throws.
If Nethys is your patron, once per day you may use the 
bracer as if it were a lesser silent metamagic rod . You may 
spontaneously convert prepared spells or use available spell slots to cast mage hand , even if it is not on your class 
spell list or you do not know the spell. Using either of these powers causes the “eye” in the gem to open as described earlier.
ConStruCtion
requirements  Craft Wondrous Item, Silent Spell, detect 
magic , mage hand , resistance ; Cost 1,050 gp, 84 XP
Stinging Stiletto
Aura  faint transmutation; Cl  3rd
Slot weapon, necklace, or ring; Price  4,500 gp; Weight  —
deSCriPtion
This tiny dagger has a black leather hilt and a gold-inlaid pattern of stripes and sharp angles on its steel blade, though it can transform into a delicate necklace or ornate finger-ring at your command. You gain a +3 competence bonus on Listen checks while you carry or wear it. You may use it to cast ghost sound  once per day.
If Calistria is your patron, once per day you may speak a 
command word to activate fox’s cunning . By pricking your finger with the dagger and swearing an oath on your own 
blood to avenge yourself against a named particular creature (a standard action), you gain a +1 competence bonus on your next attack roll within 1 minute against that creature.  Speaking a new vengeance-oath removes the old one, whether or not you have achieved your vengeance.
ConStruCtion
requirements  Craft Wondrous Item, fox’s cunning , ghost 
sound, guidance , creator must have 5 ranks in Listen; Cost 2250 
gp, 180 XP
tAnk Ard of the d runken h ero
Aura  faint transmutation; Cl  3rd
Slot none; Price  5,300 gp; Weight  1 lb.
deSCriPtion
This simple battered tankard is usually made of copper or tin. Its handle is slightly open at the bottom to let you slip it through a belt for easy carrying. You gain a +1 resistance bonus on Fortitude and Will saves. Once per day you may fill it with wine, ale, or some other alcohol and drink from it to gain the benefits of a remove fear spell. 
If Cayden Cailean is your patron, the tankard counts as 
a holy symbol. Once per day, you may drink an alcoholic beverage from the tankard to gain the benefits of a heroism  
spell. Once per day, the tankard automatically unties ropes that bind you or unlocks locks that hinder you (including loosening manacles attached to said locks). This typically occurs about 5 minutes after the tying or unlocking and only affects bindings that are directly on your person (for example, it won’t unlock a door to your prison cell but will unlock your manacles). This power is subtle enough that it is unnoticeable unless someone checks the bindings to make sure they are secure—ropes loosen but still appear to be tightly bound, manacles unlock and loosen but do not automatically fall off. The tankard can only untie or unlock things with a DC of 25 or lower, though more powerful tankards may exist.
ConStruCtion
requirements  Craft Wondrous Item, animate rope , heroism , 
knock , remove fear , resistance ; Cost 2,650 gp, 212 XP
veil of veil S
Aura  faint illusion; Cl  3rd
Slot mask; Price  3,300 gp; Weight  —
deSCriPtion
This fine silken veil can change color or alter its appearance to a highwayman’s mask or similar cloth face covering. Once per day, you may use disguise self , though the veil remains visible 
as some kind of garment on your head or face.
If Sivanah is your patron, once per day you may use blur . 
You gain a +2 competence bonus on Bluff checks.
ConStruCtion
requirements  Craft Wondrous Item, blur , disguise self , creator 
must have 5 ranks in Bluff; Cost 1,650 gp, 132 XP