56
Pathfinder Chronicles: Gods and Magic
while wearing the cloak, it protects you from hot or cold 
environments like an endure elements spell, and you may sleep in medium armor without becoming fatigued. You may use know direction once per day.
If Desna is your patron, as a standard action you can cause 
additional stars and celestial bodies to appear on the cloak, matching the current configuration in the sky. You may use longstrider  once per day. Once per day, you may throw a tiny, 
white-burning meteor that has the effect of a flare . Some 
priests of Desna claim to have cloaks of this type that also allow them to dimension door  once per day when under a 
starry night sky.
ConStruCtion
requirements  Craft Wondrous Item, disguise self , endure 
elements , flare , know direction, lesser restoration, longstrider ; 
Cost 1,250 gp, 100 XP
dAW nflo Wer S ASh
Aura  faith abjuration; Cl  5th
Slot belt or hat; Price  2,500 gp; Weight  —
deSCriPtion
This long strip of red Qadiran fabric is designed to wrap around your waist or head several times and be held in place by its ankh-shaped clasp of red gold. When worn, you remain comfortable even in warm environments as if protected by endure elements . If 
you unwrap it to its full length and hold the clasp in your hand, you can feather fall  once per day, briefly leaving behind a trail of 
pleasant red-gold light as bright as a torch. 
If Sarenrae is your patron, once per day by command, you 
can use the sash to cast cure light wounds . You may trigger this 
ability automatically if you are reduced to –1 hit points or less, though thereafter you must recharge it by placing it in strong sunlight for 8 continuous hours. At will, you may cause the clasp to shine as brightly as a torch or cease this illumination; the light is warm, feels like sunlight, and is enough to make sun-fearing creatures slightly uncomfortable but not enough to cause them harm.
ConStruCtion
requirements  Craft Wondrous Item, cure light wounds , endure 
elements , feather fall , light ; Cost 1,250 gp, 100 XP
deAthlurker’ S Clo Ak
Aura  faint necromancy; Cl  3rd
Slot cloak; Price  2,700 gp; Weight  1 lb.
deSCriPtion
This drab gray cloak sometimes billows about on an invisible wind. Once per day, you may use doom , which causes a 
deathlike shadow to cross your face for a moment.
If Groetus is your patron, once per day you may use false life . 
While false life is active, if you coup de grace a dying foe, your temporary hit points from the spell increase by 1 (to a maximum of 20 temporary hit points). The dispatched creature must have at least as many hit dice as you for this effect to occur.ConStruCtion
requirements  Craft Wondrous Item, death knell , doom , false 
life; Cost 1,350 gp, 108 XP
demon mother’ S mAS k
Aura  faint transmutation; Cl  3rd
Slot mask; Price  3,600 gp; Weight  1 lb.
deSCriPtion
This primitive hyena-like mask is usually made of leather, but 
some are made of soft metal like copper or even carved out of the skull of an animal. You gain a +2 competence bonus on Handle Animal and Heal checks. You can smell when nearby creatures are in heat or otherwise especially fertile (creatures such as humans that can breed any time of year always smell fertile unless they are barren).
If Lamashtu is your patron, the mask counts as a holy symbol 
and a hole for a third eye appears in the mask’s forehead. You may use summon monster II once per day to summon a fiendish hyena, which obeys you as if you shared a common language. You may interbreed with animals that are within one size category of your size, usually creating (if you are a humanoid) animal-humanoid creatures such as gnolls or lizardfolk, or sometimes natural lycanthropes prone to live in hybrid form.
ConStruCtion
requirements  Craft Wondrous Item, detect animals or plants , 
polymorph , summon monster II , creator must have at least 5 
ranks in Handle Animal and Heal; Cost 1,800 gp, 144 XP
droSkAr’S guiding r ing
Aura  faint enchantment; Cl  3rd
Slot ring; Price  2,600 gp; Weight  —
deSCriPtion
This gold ring is misshapen and uncomfortable to wear for long periods; inscribed on it is a crude symbol of a fire burning under an arch. Once per day, you may use charm person .
If Droskar is your patron, any time you create a magic item 
you may choose to pay half of the crafting cost; you work on the item normally but at the time of completion there is a 50% chance that it turns out useless, nonmagical, and worthless. For example, if creating a magic bracer normally costs 1,000 gp, you may create it and only spend 500 gp, but there is a 50% chance your shortcuts in the process result in a valueless item.
ConStruCtion
requirements  Craft Wondrous Item, charm person, fabricate ; 
Cost 1,300 gp, 104 XP
fAther’ S forgehA mmer
Aura  faint transmutation; Cl  3rd
Slot weapon; Price  4,800 gp; Weight  2 lb.
deSCriPtion
This iron hammer bears Torag’s holy symbol; it is not designed for combat, but you can use it as a Medium light hammer. Once per day, you may strike it hard against 