36
Pathfinder Chronicles: Gods and Magic
Shelyn
Fill your heart, eyes, and mind with the 
beauty in the world.
THE ETERNAL ROSE
Goddess of beauty, art, love, and music
Alignment  NG
Domains  Air, Charm, Good, Luck, 
Protection
Favored Weapon GlaiveCenters of Worship Absalom, Galt, 
Sargava, Taldor
Nationality  Taldan
An ancient story tells of how Shelyn stole the glaive of her half-brother Zon-Kuthon in an attempt to redeem him from the alien inf luence possessing his 
mind. This attempt failed, but she has not given up hope, and out of love for him she retains the so-called Whisperer of Souls as her favored weapon despite its malign inf luence. Her story of love and devotion despite sorrow inspires mortal friends and lovers to persevere in adverse circumstances, bards to craft epic songs and tragedies, and artists to create works that touch the soul. All depictions of Shelyn, regardless of race or ethnicity, show her as a young woman barely out of her youth, with eyes of blue or silver (or sometimes heterochromatic, with both colors). Shelyn’s ankle-length chestnut hair bears several strands colored bright red, green, and gold. She always wears tasteful clothing and jewelry that accentuates her beauty without revealing too much of it. 
Shelyn has a loving and kind heart, and would move 
mountains or take extreme risks for those she loves (evidence of this is her devotion to her possessed and hostile half-brother). She is a passionate and creative artist both in matters of the heart and works of beauty and tries to make the world a better place by her actions. She preaches and practices that true beauty comes from within, and she favors relationships not based solely on carnal desires, which often puts her at odds with Calistria. She does not oppose such relationships among mortals, but only hopes they blossom into something more meaningful. 
Shelyn sometimes sends messages to her faithful 
directly by means of a short but precise whispered message in the ear. Songbirds are sacred to the sect; their presence is considered good luck. Her displeasure can manifest in a number of ways, and a brief glimpse of a repellent ref lection in a mirror, a lover’s quarrel, a drably-colored bird or one singing off-key, and wilted rose beds are all common signs of her disappointment. Among her worshipers are artists, young lovers, old 
couples still very much in love, musicians, those awaiting arranged marriages, the broken-hearted, and romantics of all stripes. Star-crossed lovers pray to be united, young men to catch the eye of a beautiful girl, and young women to find a handsome and loving husband. A husband in a 
politically-motivated marriage prays that his wife 
never meets his beloved mistress, while his wife 
asks that her husband never suspect the peasant 
boy who makes her heart ache with longing. 
Her avatar is an embodiment of passion, 
energy, and devotion; though she appears to be just a woman of resounding beauty as she 
is shown in art, nearby objects and even the air 
and light itself bends toward her as if her very 
proximity brings bliss. Her herald is the Spirit 
of Adoration, a winged human (or sometimes 
an elf ) whose eyes burn with the fire of true love 
threatened, her face the stern mask of the artist lost in the moment of finishing his masterpiece, her hands dancing like they move to the very music of creation; rarely does she enter battle, but it is said that there is nothing she cannot bend or break in pursuit of her goal. Shelyn’s most popular assistants in the mortal world are Harmonia (a cloud-like being with dozens of winking eyes and singing mouths), Phoenix Tail (a brilliantly-plumed avoral bard), and Dancing Petal (an euphoric air elemental).
Shelyn is in a unique position among the deities in that 
everyone loves her and wishes to please her (though they may not acknowledge this when she is not around); she cannot help this, as it is merely her nature. However, the other gods and goddesses all have different ideas about what it is to love someone, and far too many of the evil ones equate love with ownership (and treat their “property” horribly). She is the only deity who has any regular contact with Zon-Kuthon, as they have reached an agreement and he never attacks her, though she remains wary that the evil force that controls him might one day change its mind.
Priests, T emples, and the Church
Most of her clergy is composed of clerics or bards, though she has a few paladins, druids, and rangers of status in her church. Their duty is to promote and protect beauty, art, and love so that these things may flourish and inspire others to joy and enlightenment. Though all priests have access to charm magic, they do not use it recklessly or to seduce, as this is a violation of the goddess’s teachings and unfair to those who might honesty be searching for love. Her clergy has been known to use magic such as calm emotions to ease 
the hurt of a broken heart. Most priests eventually get married.
Typically, non-adventuring priests support themselves 
through some kind of art, which means they tend to 
