47
Other Gods
2
He claims to be the god of law, luxury, obedience, and the 
land of Razmiran itself.
As Razmir is not a god and has no actual divine pow -
ers, it is likely he or his lieutenants are working with a group of divine spellcasters to create these items. Priests wearing these magical masks have started to appear in Razmiran and neighboring lands, using the mask’s mag -
ic to “prove” the divinity of the Living God. In the rare cases where someone outside the faith wears one, priests eventually locate and ambush them for their blasphemy.
Sivanah (The Seventh Veil) : Sivanah’s illusionists may 
become priests of the church, and their shadow conjuration 
spells can duplicate conjuration (healing) spells. Veiled witches of Irrisen have been seen in Razmiran, perhaps as envoys from Baba Yaga to the Living God or out of an interest in exchanging magic.
Zyphus (The Grim Harvestman) : Some priests of 
Zyphus have the power to bring bad luck upon their enemies; this works like the Luck domain’s power except the priest invokes it upon another creature, typically when the expected outcome is good. Though they are indifferent about the creation of undead, his dead priests have a tendency to rise as bodiless undead (allips, specters, and wraiths are the most common result) and continue their work.
Dwarf Gods
In addition to their worship of Torag, Abadar, and Irori, Golarion dwarves have a small pantheon of related deities that have few worshipers outside the dwarven race. Few if any surface dwarves still worship Droskar (see Chapter 2: Common Gods), though he technically is part of the dwarven racial pantheon. Most of these dwarven gods are related to Torag in some way; as he is the greatest of them, they defer to him except in things that are entirely in their jurisdiction rather than his. Dwarven priests acknowledge these other deities in prayers for the community but very few worship any of them as a primary deity. In times when a community needs a spell from one of these deities’ exclusive domains, a cleric performs an hours-long ritual attuning himself to the other deity’s interests, after which he can prepare domain spells from that deity (this attunement lasts 1 day).
Angradd (The Forge-Fire) : The counterpart to his older 
brother Torag’s defensive perspective, Angradd is the god of aggressive tactics and warfare. He and Magrim watch over battles, dividing the dwarven spirits between them according to how brave they were in combat.
Bolka (The Golden Gift) : Daughter of Torag and Folgrit, 
this happy goddess has long blonde hair and a figure that would make even the most reserved dwarf catch his breath. She makes arranged marriages blossom into love and inspires confirmed bachelors to decide to seek a wife.
Dranngvit (The Debt Minder) : This bitter goddess is 
Torag’s half-sister; some legends say she was to have been his bride but he chose Folgrit instead, and to earn her forgiveness he made her a goddess. The dwarves consider Dranngvit a necessary evil, a goddess to propitiate when they have wronged someone; only those consumed by hatred and bitterness choose her as a patron. She may be Kols’s mother, though Folgrit treats him like her own son.
Droskar (The Dark Smith) : Though most Golarion 
scholars believe him to be dead, Droskar’s church is the primary faith of the duergar, and in his name they churn out arms and armor for various conf licts deep under the surface. He teaches that repetitive work leads to improved skill, and that if you push yourself far enough, you will achieve greatness. Those who toil and still fail in this endeavor are either not working hard enough or aren’t putting their heart into their work. He believes in using slave labor to allow craftsmen to focus on the creative aspects of work without worrying about minor details; slaves Razmir Sivanah Zyphus