26
Pathfinder Chronicles: Gods and Magic
Nethys
Magic is all things, and in all things.
THE ALL-SEEIN g EYE
God of magic
Alignment  N
Domains  Destruction, Knowledge, Magic, 
Protection, Rune
Favored Weapon QuarterstaffCenters of Worship Absalom, Geb, Katapesh, 
Kyonin, Nex, Numeria, Osirion, Thuvia
Nationality  Garundi
Ancient Osiriani texts mention a powerful God-King named Nethys, whose mighty sorceries allowed him to see all that transpired, 
even across the planes of the Great Beyond. The knowledge he gained through these visions fueled his divinity, but shattered his psyche as well. Ever since, Nethys has been of two minds—one set upon destroying the world and another pledged to protect it. Nethys is often shown with both his aspects in action. One side of him is burned and broken, unleashing terrible magic upon the world, while the other half is calm and serene, using magic to heal the sick and protect the innocent. 
Nethys is prone to extreme mood swings, feeling benign 
and inspirational one moment and willing to tear open volcanoes the next. Other deities have tried to stabilize or cure him, but his condition is the price of his power and status; without his ultimate knowledge, he would not be a god. He is the master of all magic—helpful, harmful, creative, destructive, arcane, divine, and everything in between.  He is the proponent of magic for any purpose, even frivolous or wasteful ones. Magic is an infinite resource that permeates all dimensions, and he insists there is no need to limit its use for fear of its eventual expiration. He embraces all who practice magic and rejects those without the talent or discipline to learn it.
Nethys is not known for showing favor or wrath to his 
followers or enemies, a fact that many of his worshipers bear with some pride. Though this self-important atitude does not endear them to members of other churches, it does reinforce the idea that Nethys doesn’t care what they do with their magic as long as they are using it. The devout believe that the manifestation of zones of unpredictable magic are the results of the god passing close to the Material Plane, while the manifestation of zones of “empty magic” (where magic simply doesn’t function) are indications of his anger at someone or something in that area.
His followers are those who desire magical knowledge 
or power, arcane or divine, regardless of how they want to use it—to destroy, invent, or protect. The church of Nethys tries to balance the god’s two aspects, but individual temples often focus on one particular type of magic and draw worshipers interested in that type. Opposing temples 
might war on each other, but Nethys doesn’t care, 
just as he doesn’t care if a good temple siphons 
magic from evil items, locks them away, or 
converts them to a more benign use.
Nethys’s avatar is terrible to behold, a male 
human crackling with power, one side burned 
or even skeletal, the other f lush with power 
and bleeding energy into the air. His herald 
is the Arcanotheign, an incorporeal, woman-
shaped cloud of black or white magical energy 
(depending on the god’s intentions for sending 
her) who can transform objects and shoot eldritch 
energy with various effects. His divine servants are 
ascended mortals and magical beings, including Bard (a 
masked trumpet archon), Takaral (a semi-skeletal lich), and Yamasha (a succubus sorcerer with hawk’s wings).
Though his madness makes it hard to get him to stay 
active in long-term plans, many deities rely upon his aid from time to time. Despite his shattered mind, he is able to negotiate with other beings of like power, and he does not unexpectedly turn on visitors or allies unless his omniscient senses reveal he is being threatened or double-crossed. Because he supports the use of any magic, he might ally with anyone in the pantheon, supplying spells, magic items, or even raw magical power.
Priests, T emples, and the Church
Any wielder of magic may become a priest of the church, whether he be a standard practitioner of spells such as a cleric or sorcerer or something more primitive or exotic like a hedge wizard, witch doctor, adept, or folk ritualist. Advancement in the clergy is based on power and magical knowledge, which means most practitioners of simpler magic can only aspire to low ranks in the church. Those without magic may work for the church but are treated as second-class citizens (or even expendable in the more evil temples); even a lowly apprentice who has only mastered a few cantrips has higher status than a master rogue or talented fighter. Priests associated with Nethys’s temples are used to magical folk being in charge and often make the mistake of barking orders in more status-equal groups such as adventuring parties.
Priests of Nethys tend to be very mercenary in their 
services. They craft and sell magical goods, advise nobles and merchants on how magic can improve their station, hire themselves as bodyguards for ships or caravans, or act as battle-casters for armies or adventuring companies. Some tithe service to a lord in exchange for property and a staff of peasants so they can focus on research.  Others 