40
Pathfinder Chronicles: Gods and Magic
Urgathoa
Seize what you can, tear it apart, and savor 
its sweet bloody taste.
THE p ALLID p RINCESS
Goddess of gluttony, disease, and undeath
Alignment  NE
Domains  Death, Evil, Magic, Strength, War
Favored Weapon ScytheCenters of Worship Geb, UstalavNationality  Varisian
Some claim that Urgathoa was a mortal once, but when she died, her thirst for life turned her into the Great Beyond’s first 
undead creature. She f led from Pharasma’s endless line of souls and back to Golarion, bringing disease with her to the world. She appears as a beautiful, raven-haired woman from the waist up, but below that her form begins to rot and wither, until only blood-covered bones remain at her feet.
Urgathoa is amoral and utterly lacks ethics, as she was 
willing to throw off the natural order to suit her own desires despite the consequences to others. A hedonist in life, her undead state and startling lack of f lesh means she can sense less now than she could as a mortal, so she makes up for it in excess and depravity. If she wishes to taste the brain of an infant or see what patterns leprosy would make on the f lesh of a young prince, she does it, and she expects no less from her followers, living and undead. Life (and unlife) are far more interesting and intense than the dull existence of a dead soul, so it is of utmost importance to cram as much sensation into your existence as possible; ascetics, particularly those who follow the Prophecies of Kalistrade, are repugnant to her.
When Urgathoa is pleased, common food tastes like a 
delicious meal, water tastes like fine wine, and a meal is never so filling that the eater feels uncomfortable. The Pallid Princess sometimes rewards female clerics who serve her particularly well by transforming them after death into hideous undead creatures called the daughters of Urgathoa. When she is angry, she makes food and water taste like ash, fills the belly with gnawing hunger, or inf licts rotting or swelling diseases that make it difficult to eat. She has been known to render legs insensate or paralyzed so the victim must crawl, or reverse the taste of food so that garbage and sewage are the only things the offender can manage to swallow.
Undead and dark necromancers are her primary 
worshipers, though those who hope to become undead (such as a vampire’s minions, potential liches, and so on) seek her favor as well. As such, her priests must often keep their activities a secret. Some who are sick with the plague make offerings to the Pallid Princess in hopes of alleviating their illness, but most turn to Sarenrae for healing. The occasional gluttonous prince might make 
sacrifices to Urgathoa as well, be it for more food, 
women, or other physical pleasures.
Urgathoa’s avatar is slightly more presentable than how she is shown in art, dressed in a loose gown that clings to the gore on her lower half 
and does little to conceal that she is nothing but 
bones below the waist; from neck to toe, the gown 
is stained with patches of black, brown, and red, 
remnants of meals better left undescribed. Her 
herald is Mother’s Maw, a f lying fanged skull as 
large as an ogre, surrounded by a cloud of f lies, 
trailing maggots, and dripping blood from its 
sharp teeth. Among her blessed minions are 
Barasthangas (a devourer), Fjarn (a former 
Linnorm King, now a ghast barbarian), and Olix (a vampire priest with unusual shadow powers).
If the other deities would just leave her alone to feed her 
needs, Urgathoa would have no enemies, but Pharasma and Sarenrae pursue her and her kind wherever they are found, so she reciprocates this attention. Abadar’s cities create population gluts that are ripe for disease, which she obliges, angering him. She and Calistria vie for control of their overlapping interest, with the elven goddess representing lust and the undead one representing physical excess; in most cases this is an amiable arrangement, for Urgathoa has no sexual urges anymore, but from time to time a necrophiliac cult arises and bridges the gap between the goddesses, forcing them to spar to determine who the cult belongs to. She has also been known to lend support to the daemon Horsemen from time to time, for many of their goals closely match her own. 
Priests, T emples, and the Church
The Pallid Princess’s clergy is approximately 2/3 clerics and 1/3 necromancers, necromancy-inclined sorcerers, blackguards, and miscellaneous undead who rise to positions of power whether or not they have magical ability. They have no duties other than mutual protection and aiding those who wish to become undead, for Urgathoa is satisfied when mortals excessively consume in her name and is content at the rate that undead propagate themselves. This doesn’t stop cult cells from taking a more aggressive stance, such as planning to convert the population of an entire town to zombie slaves.
Priests usually conceal their allegiance and find 
employment in jobs that allow them frequent access to dead bodies, such as gravedigger, mercenary, or (if desperate) butcher. Those who can cook well might find 