29
1
Gods: Norgorber
Others use their knowledge of alchemy, poisons, and 
potions to keep villains supplied in deadly goods while keeping a public face as a harmless apothecary. Some work as diplomats, spies, or negotiators, buying and selling information and contracts.
Followers behave according to their chosen aspect of the 
god. Those who worship the Reaper of Reputation are coy and secretive, those of Blackfingers tend to be bookish, those of the Gray Master are greedy and covetous, and those of Father Skinsaw are antisocial. Of course, these traits color rather than define a worshiper, and while some are caricatures of these qualities, most have the good sense to rein in their urges and present a normal attitude.
Temples are organized like thieves’ guilds, though 
temples to Blackfingers sometimes operate more like a merchant’s guild with a legitimate front selling exotic substances (some of which are deadly poisons in the right combination). A temple is run by a guildmaster (usually a thief, assassin, or cleric), with lieutenants and lesser bosses in charge of various plans and controlling teams of followers. Ceremonial colors are black and brown, and the clothes themselves usually follow current fashion so the wearer can blend in with those outside the faith.
Ceremonies to Norgorber are quiet, even in cities where 
his faith is tolerated. Typically, a masked senior priest leads a prayer, pausing for murmured assent from the faithful. pOISONED Egg
School  transmutation; Level  Asn 1, Brd 1, Clr 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
(Norgorber)
CASTINg
Casting Time 1 standard action
Components  V, S, DF
EFFECT
Range  touch
Target  1 egg
Duration  1 minute/level
Saving Throw none (object); Spell Resistance no (object)
DESCRIpTION
You transform the contents of a normal egg (such as a chicken egg) into a single dose of small centipede poison (injury DC 11, 1d2 Dex/1d2 Dex). The poison reverts to a normal egg at the end of the spell, even if the secondary damage has not occurred (the reverted egg substance is harmless unless the poisoned creature is vulnerable to eggs). The egg may be raw or cooked but must be whole and not empty when you cast the spell.
Careless would-be poisoners who leave egg on their 
weapons soon find it tends to clog sheaths and eventually begins to smell rotten; in the church, calling someone an “egg boy” is a minor insult suggesting a lack of foresight or regard for consequences.
They celebrate his Ascension in midwinter by snatching a random person from the street, bringing him to the temple, quietly murdering him with poison, then hiding the body where it will never be found.
At least 17 short texts are associated with the faith, 
all given innocuous code names and often disguised as mundane books or encoded to prevent easy scrutiny.
Those who have access to disguise self (or similar spells) 
usually prepare it once per day just in case they lack a mask and need to conceal their identity. Clerics and druids of Blackfingers may spontaneously cast poison . Clerics of the 
Reaper of Reputation may prepare nondetection  as a 3rd-
level spell. Clerics of Father Skinsaw may spontaneously cast slay living .
