49
Other Gods
2
of their new god with zeal, and few fire giants pray to any 
being but him.
Frost giants claim they are the creations of Thremyr, a 
giant-like being made of gems, ice, and salt. When Thremyr fell into the Steaming Sea, portions of his body calved off like icebergs, creating the first frost giants. Annoyed at the (relatively) tiny copies of his monstrous form, he drove them away, but the young giants learned how to fend for themselves and eventually returned to bring him tribute, at which point he acknowledged them as his. Now the giants raid to satisfy their own greed and to keep their often-sleeping god in a good mood. They may worship better-known gods such as Gorum and Norgorber, but they always include Thremyr in their prayers.
Hill giant tribes have conf licting lore about their 
origins; some claim they are stone giants who generations ago were cursed for some infraction, others believe they were sleeping under the earth and awoke when the dwarves broke through to the surface, and so on. Most worship Rovagug, Urazra, Fandarra, or Norgorber.
Stone giants (and their cousins, the taiga giants) have an 
ancient culture, and according to their lore all other giants were created from their kind. In addition to worshiping their ancestors, spirits of the earth itself, and the god Erastil (whom they call Estig the Hunter and depict as a fur-clad stone giant), they pray to Fandarra, Minderhal, and (in recent centuries) Urazra.
Storm giants claim to be the first sort of giant to set 
foot on Golarion and that all other types are offshoots of their race or copies made by confused or jealous deities. They worship a group of deities called the Great Keomm, consisting of a father-sky god Hyjarth (Gozreh), a mother-sea goddess Tourithia (also Gozreh), and their daughter-musician Syriss (Shelyn), as well as various historical figures given status somewhere between saint and demigod.Ogres originate from the bastard offspring of giants 
and humans. Incredibly stupid creatures, few understand intangible concepts like deities. The rare ones able to think outside their immediate reach worship their incestuous god Haggakal.
Fandarra (Blood Mother) : This old deity is a favorite 
of elder stone giants but also has a following among the smaller races, especially primitive northern humanoid tribes. She gives magical bear and mammoth guardians to her champions; these pets are more powerful than dire bears and some understand the giant language. She is a contemporary of Erastil, and while he has moved on and embraced towns and other small aspects of civilization, she is content with tribal settlements and adhering to the old ways, including great sacrifices, mass bloodlettings, butchering large quantities of livestock, and so on. In times of suffering she grows even more demanding, and her people can only appease her by offering up a sacrifice of one of their own kind. She is usually shown as a bald, female stone giant wearing a crown of leaves, a dress of red mammoth fur, and typically holding a haunch of meat in one hand and a stone tablet in the other. When depicted in her vengeful aspect, she wears a necklace of knives or arrowheads, whereas her fertility aspect shows her either pregnant or holding an infant in each hand. Her priests are clerics or druids, and all priests can prepare a variant of enlarge person as a 3rd-level spell, affecting only 
giants (a stone giant increases from Large to Huge size and increases space and reach to 15 feet).
Haggakal : This disgusting ogre god is a horrible round-
faced thing, the offspring of some evil deity and a debased giant. Few ogres are intelligent enough to recognize things such as gods, but those who do believe him to be a great ogre’s face in the sky. When the moon wanes, they believe he has turned away from the world to mate with his twin sister (who shares his name, looks, and temperament), which the 
Ketephys Yuelral Findeladlara