8
Pathfinder Chronicles: Gods and Magic
Calistria
Savor the three stings of passion, guile,  
and vengeance.
THE S AVORED S TINg
Goddess of trickery, lust, and revenge
Alignment  CN
Domains  Chaos, Charm, Knowledge, Luck, 
Trickery
Favored Weapon WhipCenters of Worship Absalom, Galt, Kyonin, Nex, 
River Kingdoms, Shackles, Taldor, Varisia
Nationality  Elf
Although the elves worship a great many deities, they hold none so highly as Calistria. The Savored Sting speaks to the mercurial, detached nature that 
makes elves elves. Some favor her as a trickster goddess, while others appreciate her lustful, audacious spirit. Ever scheming and planning her next conquest, Calistria is always maneuvering to a more advantageous position. Iconography of the faith depicts her as the ideal of elven beauty, dressed in revealing gowns with long graceful ears, slender limbs, and a suggestive smile playing across her lips. She is commonly shown with giant wasps; unlike bees, wasps can sting again and again without dying, just as sex and revenge can be experienced time and again.
Calistria is fickle, changing loyalties as her needs 
and whims suit her. She doesn’t do this to be hurtful, she just never lets her interest become too strong or too emotional and thinks that anyone who does otherwise is a fool; former partners and allies who are smart know to accept this and move on. Those who compromise her interests suffer her barbs, and she feels no guilt for taking an eye for an eye, or even more. She has no interest in love and sees it only as a weakness and needless byproduct of physical pleasures. Forgiveness is the domain of fools and weaklings unwilling to protect and avenge their interests. Though she is a goddess of trickery and enjoys a good joke (or even cruel jokes), she thinks of common pranks and physical comedy as beneath her.
Spies, prostitutes, narcissists, hedonists, thrill seekers, 
enchanters, and illusionists are often followers of Calistria. Those who carry a grudge pray for her favor, as do the rare non-evil assassins pursuing a justified blood debt. The bastard offspring of racial mixing (such as half-elves and tief lings) are attracted to the faith, using their exotic appearances as an advantage among “normal” folk, especially as most owe their very existence to unusual lusts. Most of her worshipers are elves, not because of an excessive prurient interest in f lesh but because she represents freedom from commitment and the freedom to pursue what one desire.
Calistria shows her favor among the faithful with sudden 
runs of luck among attempts to find companionship, heightening of physical pleasures, and finding easy marks for schemes or acts of vengeance. Those who displease her 
often find themselves plagued by 
impotence, inability to achieve 
sexual satisfaction, schemes failing 
disastrously, or angry wasps with an 
unerring ability to sting in sensitive places.
Calistria’s avatar is a beautiful elven woman 
wearing a slinky yellow and black dress. Her eyes 
are dark and mysterious, sometimes f lashing gold 
with passion or anger. Her herald is the Menotherian, 
a bear-sized, wasplike creature with a double stinger 
and powerful scent glands that can control minds; the 
Menotherian can take a humanoid form resembling an 
exotic caricature of a beautiful elf, with long ears, narrow cheekbones, and graceful limbs. Notable servants include 
Velvet Wing (an elven succubus-like creature), Tordurbar 
(a hypersexualized chaos beast), and Thyev (a frog-like, shapechanging sorcerer obsessed with vengeance).
Calistria’s interactions with other gods are complex 
and strewn with contradictions and fabrications. Some paint her as a good god’s lover, others as an enemy. Some even suggest the creation or destruction of certain deities (for example, one says that she rebuffed Cayden Cailean, saying no mortal could enjoy her charms and survive, so he took the Test of the Starstone  for the chance to be with 
her as a god).
Priests, T emples, and the Church
Priests of Calistria are usually bards or clerics, though in some places more exotic spellcasters are the norm for clergy. As a group they are a reactive force more than a proactive one, content to let the world progress at its own pace until something provokes them. Most people see the priests of Calistria as providers of comfort to those in need of solace, whether physical or emotional. They open their doors to those brimming over with lust, needing advice on embarrassing a rival, or seeking aid to strike back at those who have hurt them.
Many priests work as or with prostitutes, always in a 
manner that assures the safety of those in that profession; the church does not make its priests into victims, as they are people with power who greatly enjoy what they do for a living. Even the most ugly or disagreeable priest knows how to turn on the charm at the right time, surprising those who witness the change (Diplomacy or Gather Information are essential skills). Others may work as spies, investigators (for individuals or the government), or smugglers of exotic materials for those with singular interests.
