45
Other Gods
2
Common Gods
These gods are commonly known in 
various lands of the Inner Sea in the same way that people know dragons exist and platinum is valuable—they may have never seen these things personally but have heard stories repeated often enough to believe they’re true.
Achaekek (He Who Walks in 
Blood) : Also known as the Mantis 
God, Achaekek is the god of the Red Mantis assassins’ guild. He attracts other mortals who kill for pay, many of them beastmen and others that can only find a place on the fringes of civilized society. Walking a fine line between Calistria (who believes in vengeance but usually isn’t so direct and blatant as to murder someone) and Norgorber (who is the god of all murder, not just murder for pay), these beings amorally stalk their prey. Some hope to join the Red Mantis someday, others found their own assassins’ guilds or cults of assassination. Achaekek’s power and majesty attract a few druids and rangers who wish to emulate the god’s speed and efficiency at killing—and aren’t above accepting coin from squeamish druids unwilling to take that last step in dealing with a persistent problem.
Alseta (The Welcomer) : This minor goddess watches 
over doorways, thresholds, and the transition from one year to the next. She is a servitor of most civilized deities, acting as a domain steward for absent powers or as a hostess for gatherings of the divine. As the steward of doors, she is informally the goddess of teleportation, and some elves call her the patron of elf gates. She appears as a pleasant-faced woman dressed in simple gray clothing, often wearing a smiling mask on the back of her head.
Besmara (The Pirate Queen) : Few pirates have the time 
or interest for zealous devotion to a deity and don’t bother praying to her until they are face to face with death. Her role as goddess of sea monsters does not endear her to intelligent aquatic things such as aboleths, sahuagin, and kraken, as to her sea monsters are more like vicious dogs that obey her command to heel than loyal creatures who comply her out of respect. The undersea races venerate their own strange gods and give Besmara a wide berth, lest they find themselves compelled to obey her orders. She enjoys conf lict more than peace, as when two nations squabble it gives her more opportunities to plunder both sides and blame her attacks on the victim’s rival; her followers have been known to stir up trouble by sailing aggressively (or even attacking) using temperamental nation’s colors or falsely claiming to be “legitimate privateers” as they attack in peacetime.
Brigh (The Whisper in the Bronze) : 
This enigmatic, silent deity appears to be a slender woman made of bronze clockwork with a metal skullcap, though sometimes she is shown as a beautiful woman wearing clockwork armor. She is the goddess of invention, particularly that which creates things that seem to have a life of their own, such as clockwork constructs. As most creative minds who throw themselves into this sort of work eschew magic and faith, she has only a small following, but those who do pray to her see her as the personification of their art—a human-like shape that has transcended its human f laws. It is not known if she is a mortal who became a goddess or is a created being that gained a spark of life and divinity. Her 
faithful see her as a feminine, thinking counterpart to the rage and violence of Gorum. Her holy symbol is a feminine metal mask with a rune engraved on the forehead.
Ghlaunder (The Gossamer King) : This monstrous 
demigod was inadvertently freed from his cocoon by Desna. As she feels responsible for loosing him upon the world, she hunts him to this day in the hope of turning his power toward a more positive end. Members of his faith may be carriers of parasites or disease but experience no drawbacks of these conditions. They have no common garb but can often be recognized for their pockmarked skin and infestations of f leas or other vermin. Most of his priests take the Vermin Heart feat (Pathfinder Chronicles Campaign Setting 219). They only use 
spells such as remove disease  on those of their faith, and 
the spells only suspend the detrimental effects rather than actually cure the sickness. Some seed diseases or parasites in settlements to weed out those they consider unfit, while “adventurers” of this cult delve into strange monster lairs in the hopes of discovering and catching new diseases to share with others. 
Groetus (God of the End Times) : The god of the end 
of the world has no organized faith. Followers of Groetus who aren’t prone to mad ravings or grand plans tend to be skulkers and hangers-on, content to lurk near battlefields or in the rear of adventuring parties, watching 
Besmara
Ghlaunder