34
Pathfinder Chronicles: Gods and Magic
Sarenrae
Let the healing light of the sun burn out the 
darkness within you.
THE D AWNFLOWER
Goddess of the sun, redemption, honesty, and healing
Alignment  NG
Domains  Fire, Glory, Good, Healing, Sun
Favored Weapon ScimitarCenters of Worship Absalom, Katapesh, Osirion, 
Qadira, Taldor, Thuvia
Nationality  Keleshite
When the primal forces created Golarion, Asmodeus planted a malignant evil in the world under cover of perpetual darkness. The doctrine of Sarenrae’s faith tells how the Dawnf lower brought light to the world, and with it came truth and honesty. Those who had turned to evil saw their wickedness and were forgiven by the light of Sarenrae. Her faith attracts those with kind hearts, but only those willing to harden them when kindness is a dangerous weakness. Religious art depicts the sun goddess as a strong woman with bronze skin and a mane of dancing f lame. While one hand holds the light of the sun, the other grasps a scimitar, so that she might smite those who do not change their ways.
Sarenrae is a kind and loving goddess, a caring mother 
and sister to all in need. She joys in healing the sick, lifting up the fallen, and shining a guiding light into the darkest hearts and lands. She brushes off insults and def lects attacks, patiently trying to convince those who perceive her as an enemy that their belief is false. She is no victim, and once it is clear that her words and power are wasted on those who refuse to listen and believe, she responds to violence in kind, with swift metal and scorching light. She dislikes cruelty, lies, quenching darkness, needless suffering, and thoughtless destruction.
Sarenrae indicates her favor with sightings of doves or 
through the shapes of ankhs appearing in unexpected places. Other signs of Sarenrae are rays of dawn or dusk sunlight lasting far longer than they should, the discovery of yellow stones or gems, or the sudden soothing of aches and pains. Her displeasure is most often made apparent through unexplained sunburns or periods of blindness that can last anywhere from only a few moments for minor transgressions to a lifetime for unforgivable sins.
Sarenrae is a popular goddess and worshiped by people 
of many interests, from the obvious farmers and healers to governors, honest jailors, redeemed evil-doers, and those who wish to make the world a better place. City-folk who have no particular interest in fate, farming, magic, or esoteric philosophy make up the bulk of her worshipers, regular people who believe in honest work, relief from suffering, and the idea that each new day brings hope and renewed opportunity.
The Dawnf lower’s avatar looks as she is shown in 
art, though she often manifests wings like her angelic 
minions. The sunlight her avatar bears in one hand 
sometimes drips down to collect as liquid light 
which can provide illumination, healing, or 
sustenance, while her scimitar generates blasts 
of wind that blow away sickness and despair. 
Her herald is Holy Sunlord Thalachos, a 
platinum-skinned angel always accompanied 
by 11 immortal doves. Among Sarenae’s notable 
servants are Bryla (a wheel of burning sunlight), Charlabu (a golden hound archon 
who prefers a friendly doglike form), and 
Mystmorning (a sentient dancing sword with all the 
powers of a celestial unicorn).
The goddess welcomes all non-evil deities and treats 
most of the evil ones pleasantly in the hopes of convincing 
them to abandon their evil. She eyes Asmodeus warily, as 
the two have a long history of battling over souls. Despite 
her disgust at Urgathoa’s undead followers and disease, 
the Dawnf lower tries to find some way to “help” the other goddess become whole again. Rovagug is her only declared foe, for his mindless destruction opposes her generous nature and she still remembers the sting of his attacks in the battle where she imprisoned him ages ago. 
Priests, T emples, and the Church
Most of Sarenrae’s priests are clerics, though there are many paladins and rangers and a smattering of sun-druids and sun-bards. They are responsible for blessing farmland, organizing planting and harvest celebrations, tending to the sick and injured, guarding or rehabilitating criminals, or simply preaching to others using simple parables.  Like their goddess, priests of the Dawnf lower tend to be caring and understanding, which makes them naturally suitable for working out disputes between neighbors or family members. Swordplay, particularly with the scimitar, is held to be a form of art by her followers. Martial-minded priests seek out evil in the hopes of redeeming it or destroying it if redemption fails. They understand that undead, mindless beasts, and fiends are essentially beyond redemption and don’t bother wasting words on such creatures. The church is not averse to using spells like lesser geas  and mark of justice  
to help guide malcontents toward goodness.
Most non-adventuring priests live on donations from 
their congregation, as do those who work in church temples. Wealthier folk or nobles might hire a priest as a personal healer to deal with a particular problem or 