38
Pathfinder Chronicles: Gods and Magic
Torag
Aim high, plan well, strike while the  
iron is hot.
FATHER OF CREATION
God of the forge, protection, and strategy
Alignment  LG
Domains  Artifice, Earth, Good, Law, Protection
Favored Weapon WarhammerCenters of Worship Kalistocracy of Druma, Lands of the 
Linnorm Kings
Nationality  Dwarf
The dwarves believe that Torag created the world at his great forge, striking it again and again with his hammer to get the 
shape he desired. As the rocks tumbled and the sparks f lew, the dwarves were born, made of stone with bellies full of fire. Torag appears as a powerful and cunning dwarf, busy at his forge hammering out a weapon or shield. He is the consummate planner, with a contingency for nearly every situation.  Torag loves the dwarven race (and, grudgingly, his non-dwarven worshipers), but he is like a distant father-figure who shows little of the affection he feels for his children because he knows life is a hard journey and he wants them to grow up strong, determined, and competent.  Art shows him as a stereotypical dwarf in intricate  armor and carrying his warhammer Kaglemros  (“forger of 
many weapons”).
The Father of Creation sees planning for a greater 
purpose and creating complex battle strategies like the necessary interlocking rings in chain mail, but knows there are times when a dwarf needs to abandon a failing strategy and think on his feet. He prefers an organized defense to a tactical assault, and a tactical assault to a reckless charge. He opposes acting without thinking, rebellious thoughts, individuals who place their community at risk, and the destruction of crafted things. Burrowing animals are sacred to the faithful of Torag, as are all animals that dwell in caves and mountainous areas. Flying creatures that live underground are viewed as abominations and freaks—bats in particular are hated things.
Torag shows he is pleased through ref lections of his face 
on polished metal, preparations happening smoothly and ahead of schedule, and finding mushrooms or fragments of stone that exactly match the shape of his hammer.  He 
sometimes sends messages through the appearance of cryptic riddles that appear on stone surfaces for a short period of time. When he is angered, forges grow cold, shields crack, and even the simplest plan carries a feeling of dread. Earthquakes (whether localized or expansive) are the ultimate indication of his displeasure, but those who survive a deadly quake are considered blessed.
His herald is the Grand Defender, a creature resembling a 
Huge, dwarf-shaped iron golem with a hammer and shield, known for casting off its outer layer of armor whenever 
“killed,” only to reveal a smaller set underneath (it may 
be nothing but layers and layers of armor). His most frequently summoned servitors are Ambassador Zurin 
(an azer noble), Hrilga Shield-Maiden (a celestial dwarf 
werebear), and Stoneriver (a bulette who can burrow through lava as well as earth).
Torag cares little for destructive and aggressive deities, 
having battled them and their minions since the dawn of 
the world. The cult of Rovagug is particularly hated, for 
his spawn have long seethed and squirmed in the 
deeper corners of the earth. Yet despite this 
loathing of the Rough Beast, Torag’s follow-
ers do not get on well with Rovagug’s nem-esis Sarenrae, as her worshipers’ willingness to forgive and their devotion to the sun seem 
to many underground-dwelling dwarves an indication of weakness. Torag respects Abadar and is friendly with Cayden Cailean and Iomedae.
Priests, T emples, and the Church
Nearly half his clerics are dwarves, and although a great many humans have taken up his call, they only outnumber the dwarves because humans breed faster and are more populous than the dwarven race. Among dwarves, almost all of his priests are clerics, with perhaps 10 percent being paladins or dwarven defenders. Among his human worshipers in the Ulfen lands, his priesthood is almost completely clerical, while a handful of adepts in poorer villages direct prayers to him for protection; human paladins of Torag are essentially unheard of. Priests create and maintain the armor and weapons of the faithful, build defenses for their settlements, and instruct militias in the use of weaponry for proper civil defense. Every priest has at least a small amount of training in some kind of smithing, as well as Knowledge (architecture) to better construct defenses and Knowledge (history) to learn the battle tactics of famous leaders.
Most non-adventuring priests work as smiths, are part 
of a governmental or military organization, or both. They understand the practical needs of crafting as a necessary trade rather than a form of artistic expression; a piece of armor or a weapon with a smith-mark crowned by Torag’s symbol may not be pretty, but it was surely tested for quality and durability. Those not inclined to work at a forge, anvil, or architect’s desk all day gravitate toward leadership positions where they can use their knowledge to direct others on the battlefield or city walls, whipping 