27
1
Gods: Nethys
use their magic to entertain or swindle others. The only 
unifying feature of the followers of Nethys is an absolute love of magic. Some love the act of using magic, just as a master blacksmith loves shaping steel or a hedonist loves the act of sex. Others appreciate it as a tool of the highest quality, or even merely for the raw power it affords.
Depending on its focus, a particular temple might look 
like a fortress, sanctuary, wizard’s tower, or even a small palace, but it is always staffed by knowledgeable people unfazed by loud noises and strange appearances. Often temples are decorated in the same colors as their ceremonial raiment, though they may just as easily be whitewashed, painted black, or left unmodified. Any significant temple has at least one chamber set aside for the specific magic its inhabitants favor, such as a summoning circle for a temple of conjuration, an inf irmary for a temple of healing, and so on.
Ranking in the church is based 
on magical knowledge and power, with the former more important in benign temples and the latter in malevolent. As masters of magic, priests are fully aware of the natural ranking of spell levels and caster levels and use this knowledge to quickly assess where someone fits in the pecking order. Individuals of a certain rank usually have one or more apprentices who have no status in the church until the priest declares them sufficiently trained. Formal ceremonies in the church require an elaborate robe, skullcap, mozzetta, and hood, all in similar colors (such as red, maroon, and burgundy), the color range chosen depending on the temple.
Worship services vary from temple 
to temple, but usually include a weekly ceremony requiring chanting and spellcasting demonstrations. Once a year, the church demands a tithe of a minor magic item—such as a scroll or potion—which the temple can use or sell (low-level priests CHANNEL THE gIFT
School  evocation; Level  Brd 3, Clr 3, Drd 3, Rgr 3, Sor/Wiz 
3 (Nethys)
CASTINg
Casting Time 1 standard action
Components  V, S, DF
EFFECT
Range touchTarget  ally spellcaster touched
Duration  1 round or see text
Saving Throw Will negates (harmless) or none;            
Spell Resistance yes (harmless) or no
DESCRIpTION
You channel magical power into the target 
to fuel their spellcasting. The next spell 
they cast of 3rd-level or less does not 
expend a spell slot; in effect, you are 
using your spell slot to power their 
spell. They must start casting this spell before your next turn, and the spell cannot have a casting time longer 
than 1 full round. Your alignment, 
prohibited wizard school, and other 
restrictions on your own spellcasting 
do not affect the target, nor do 
you suffer any backlash from the 
target’s choice of spell.
If you target yourself with this 
spell, you may spontaneously cast any prepared spell of 3rd-level or 
lower without expending its spell 
slot on your next turn (this aspect 
of the spell has no effect if you are 
a spontaneous caster). The spell cast 
after channel the gift cannot have a 
casting time longer than 1 full round.
of Nethys may purchase these items at the 
normal price, even at 1st-level). The official 
bible is The Book of Magic , a comprehensive 
guide for channeling magic and the moral 
ramifications of its use and misuse (often 
taking opposing positions in the space 
of a few paragraphs). The holy words 
are always written on the temple’s 
interior walls, but most priests also carry 
it as a book or scroll bundle.
Followers are forbidden from using imbue 
with spell ability (or similar spells that grant 
spellcasting abilities) on targets who cannot 
normally cast spells or use spell-like 
abilities; it is considered an unworthy 
sharing of blessed magic.