43
1
Gods: Zon-Kuthon
attention, they eat and may indulge in a fetish or other 
sexual gratification. Those who pretend at a normal life during the day usually bear some secret object that allows them to experience sharp pain at will, such as a corset lined with tiny spikes or a needle under a thumbnail. At night in secret places, they shed their conformist façade and display their unusual clothing and favorite mutilations, then begin the night’s painful activities.
Many followers of Zon-Kuthon seek power without 
responsibility and aren’t particularly zealous. Some join the church because they tire of the conventional delights of a decadent lifestyle and seek the thrill of tasting darker indulgences. Those who zealously join the church are usually mad or damaged individuals. With their innate understanding of dominance and submission, a Kuthite is quick to accept offered power or bow to those greater than themselves. Many priests become possessive of their underlings and punish threats against them.
Zon-Kuthon’s temples look like torture chambers, and 
many are actual torture chambers converted for church use. In smaller locales, the church might be a secret cave or basement where the cultists meet, littered with surgical and torture instruments that can pass as farm or craftsman’s tools.
Zon-Kuthon’s church has no real  overarching organi-
zational tenets. Each cell or temple has an understood hi-erarchy, based on physical power, endurance, willingness and ability to endure pain, and similar elements related to church practices. Most priests dress in fetishistic ver-sions of their god’s own garments. Body modification and self-mutilation are the norm, and in some cases they are so extreme that f lesh and clothing interweave to the point that removing it can kill them.Service to Zon-Kuthon involves torture, whether on 
slaves, prisoners, or willing sacrifices. The more the agony, the greater the offering. Larger temples may have a “scream choir” of surgically altered slaves who can only sing or scream a single note when “played” by a torturer-conductor. The church’s most notorious holidays include the Joymaking (where extraneous flesh is amputated from a willing victim) and the Eternal Kiss (where a church enemy is pampered for days and then creatively tortured). The book of laws is Umbral 
Leaves , penned by a mad prophet.
Clerics and blackguards of Zon-Kuthon may prepare 
symbol of pain  as a 4th-level spell. Their inflict wounds  spells 
always cause visible open wounds resembling slashing damage, though the cause is still from negative energy.SYMpATHETIC W OUNDS
School  abjuration [evil]; Level  Clr 2, Drd 2 (Zon-Kuthon)
CASTINg
Casting Time 1 standard action
Components  V, S, M (250 gp of powdered amber)
EFFECT
Range  close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
Target  one creature
Saving Throw Will negates; Spell Resistance yes
DESCRIpTION
This spell functions like shield other , except some of your 
wounds transfer to the targeted creature rather than some of their wounds transferring to you. For example, you could link yourself to a nearby chained slave so that when you are wounded, some of the damage is transferred to the slave. You must have at least as many hit dice as the target, otherwise the spell fails. A creature can only be under the effects of one instance of this spell at a time.