30
Pathfinder Chronicles: Gods and Magic
Pharasma
Birth and death are written in the bones, but 
bones can be broken.
LADY OF g RAVES
Goddess of fate, death, prophecy, and birth
Alignment  N
Domains  Death, Healing, Knowledge, Repose, 
Water
Favored Weapon DaggerCenters of Worship Brevoy, Nex, Osirion, 
Shackles, Thuvia, Ustalav, Varisia
Nationality  Garundi
Sitting atop an impossibly tall spire, Pharasma’s Boneyard awaits all mortals. Once there, they stand in a great line, waiting to 
be judged and sent to their final reward. Only the unworthy end up in her graveyard, their souls left to rot for all eternity. Legends claim that Pharasma knew the death of Aroden was fast approaching and even judged him, but did nothing to warn her followers, many of whom were driven mad by the event. Pharasma is depicted as the midwife, the mad prophet, or the reaper of the dead, depending upon her role. Pregnant women often carry small tokens of her midwife likeness on long necklaces to protect the unborn and grant them good lives.
The Lady of Graves is cold and business-like in her 
demeanor, for she always has work to do and much of it is grim. Having seen infants die, the righteous fall too soon, and tyrants live to advanced age, she makes no judgment about the justness of a particular death and welcomes each birth with equal severity. At the moment of birth, she knows where a particular soul will end up, but she reserves her official verdict until the last possible moment, as she knows prophecies can be wrong or fail. She believes in fate and predestination but understands the need for vagueness and misinterpretation to allow for the illusion of free will. Those who die before or during birth are wasted potential, destroying a worthy soul’s opportunity to fulfill its destiny (and thus while she has no opinion on contraception, she opposes the killing of the unborn). Those who die before experiencing their fate may be lucky enough to return in this life or the next, though in some cases their fate is merely to die an ignoble or early death. She opposes undeath as a desecration of the memory of the flesh and a corruption of a soul’s path on its journey to her judgment.
Pharasma manifests her favor through the use of scarab 
beetles and whippoorwills, both of which function as psychopomps and serve to guide recently departed spirits to the Boneyard. Black roses are thought to bring good luck, especially if the rose’s stem sports no thorns. Pharasma will also sometimes allow the spirit of those who have died under mysterious conditions to transmit short messages to their living kin to comfort them, to expose a murderer, or even to haunt an enemy. Her displeasure is often signified by cold chills down the spine, bleeding from under the 
fingernails, an unexplained taste of rich soil, the 
discovery of a dead whippoorwill, or the feeling 
that something important has been forgotten.
Pharasma’s followers are midwives, 
expectant mothers, morticians, and (less 
so since Aroden’s death) diviners. In smaller 
communities they may assume several of these 
roles, or a wife-and-husband team might split the 
duties between them.
Her avatar is her reaper aspect, a tall, gray-
skinned woman with white eyes, a f lowing, 
black-hooded gown, and bearing an hourglass with 
fast-f lowing red sand. Her herald is the Steward of the 
Skein, a pair of linked ghaele-like creatures, one shining white and blue, the other f laming orange and darkness. Her divine servants are usually strange creatures such as Birthed-in-Sorrow (a ravid cleric), Echo of Lost Divinity (a spectral soldier in fine clothes who vaguely resembles depictions of Aroden), and Endless Gravestone (a wheel-like stone creature).
All deities peaceably deal with Pharasma, for their 
agents must have access to her realm to escort souls to their respective godhomes. She has no true enemies or allies, though Iomedae views her with some resentment for keeping Aroden’s approaching death a secret.
Priests, T emples, and the Church
Members of the priesthood are usually clerics, diviners, or “white necromancers” (wizards who study necromancies other than the creation of undead), though especially skilled midwives and hedge wizards have been known to gain authority in some areas. Priests oversee births, and having one at childbirth almost always assures that mother and child will live. They are the stewards of the dead, and most are familiar with funereal customs from their own and nearby lands. They are the protectors of graveyards and the memory of those who have died, guarding sites from robbers and corpse-animators and memorizing or recording what they know about anyone who dies in their presence. The church despises the undead as abominations to the natural order, and all priests follow this belief without question; creating undead is forbidden, and controlling existing undead frowned upon.
A typical priest earns a meager living tending to women 
in labor, speaking words at funerals, or even digging graves or building tombs for wealthy patrons. Adventuring priests avoid entering tombs for the purpose of looting, though if a 
