32
Pathfinder Chronicles: Gods and Magic
Rovagug
Free me and delight in the destruction of all.
THE ROU gH bEAST
God of wrath, disaster, and destruction
Alignment  CE
Domains  Chaos, Destruction, Evil, War, 
Weather
Favored Weapon GreataxeCenters of Worship Belkzen, Osirion, Qadira, 
Realm of the Mammoth Lords
Nationality  Monster
In the dawn of prehistory, Rovagug was born to destroy the world, but all the other gods stood against him, side by 
side. Many died in the struggle, but in the end, Sarenrae sliced open the world to imprison him within, and Asmodeus bound him there, keeping the sole key. The only images of Rovagug show him as a terrible monster of unimaginable size and power. Many of his faithful believe that the Earthfall awoke their god, and that the time of his freedom is fast approaching. Foremost among his stirrings are the so-called Spawn of Rovagug, immense beasts who periodically surge from the Pit of Gormuz in central Casmaron, site of the Rough Beast’s imprisonment long millennia ago. The legendary Tarrasque is merely the most powerful and terrifying of the Spawn, although several others have left their mark upon history over the years.
Rovagug literally wants to destroy everything. He 
is the antithesis of creation, a sentient primal force of destruction intent on breaking, burning, and consuming everything that exists. He cannot be reasoned with, bribed, or bargained with; should someone free him, they will get no reward save a quick death and not having to witness the eradication of the world. He cares not if mortals love, hate, or fear him, but their whispered words let him know he is not forgotten, and he rewards them with power that they might free him or at least perform a small echo of the holocaust he would wreak. He promises no honored place at his side or immunity from his destruction, just the exhilaration of being part of it for a time.
Volcanic eruptions and earthquakes are held to be 
indications of him twisting in his sleep, and storms are the evidence of his breath coursing up from the dark places of the world. If these disasters inconvenience or harm his worshipers, they take it as a sign of his disfavor, likewise with the appearance of rampaging monsters.
Of all the religions, few are more despised by civilized 
people than Rovagug’s, and only mad, self-destructive, apocalypse-obsessed “civilized” people pray to him. In the wild lands, various monsters pay homage to him, including driders, orcs, ropers, and troglodytes, hating themselves and the world and glorying in the thought of wiping it all away in a tide of f lesh, teeth, and fire.
Rovagug’s avatar is something resembling his own 
monstrous form, a wormlike thing with multiple 
jaws, limbs, eyes, strange teeth, limb-like tongues, 
and other incomprehensible parts. His herald is 
the Tarrasque, though other Spawn have served as his herald in the past. Known abominations 
serving him in his earthen prison are Crawling 
Hunger (a barely-sentient, clawed purple worm), Galulab’daa (a berserk gibbering mouther), and 
Yigachek (a corpse-gray bebilith).
Rovagug has long railed against the other 
gods, but his hatred for Sarenrae eclipses all 
others. Even before the Dawnf lower cast him 
down, their wars were legendary, and it is said 
that Sarenrae placed the fire of the sun in the core of 
the world to constantly burn him in his prison. If he is ever freed, he will destroy everything between himself and her, then destroy her, then go back and destroy everything else. Asmodeus likes to taunt the Rough Beast with his prison’s key, and other deities check on him occasionally to make sure he is not working himself free, but none are so foolish as to try to bargain with him.
Priests, T emples, and the Church
Rovagug welcomes all who promise to destroy in his name, and his “priesthood” is a disorganized mix of clerics, adepts, classless monsters, a few thaumaturges, and even some non-spellcasters. They rarely have treasure that cannot be used to destroy things, or even items that they cannot use; a lyre of building or scroll of disguise self is better 
utilized to stoke a fire than left sitting in a corner. Priests rarely have any productive skills, even leaving things such as blacksmithing, farming, and carpentry to slaves they can exploit or enemies they can raid. They would rather see something destroyed than in the hands of a heathen, and outnumbered or suicidal priests have been known to break an enemy’s weapons and armor as a last act of defiance.
Rovagug’s priests make no useful contribution to 
normal society; at best they are mercenaries, though most act more like raiders or bandits, attacking those weaker than them and taking what they want. They care little for acquiring gold, as they know it is valueless once the world is rent, though they have been known to trade it to others for better weapons and armor (often using these things to later murder their trade partners).
On a typical day, a priest hunts in the name of his 
crazed lord, destroying life and created things with every opportunity, saving only that which they can use to bring about greater destruction. If part of a tribe, priests try to 
