11
Gods: Cayden Cailean
1
Cayden Cailean’s priests. Some temples include a bakery 
and even sell “potion breads” identical in effect to liquid potions but in bread form. Traveling clerics always carry a small keg of strong ale or wine, and it is customary for a cleric to toast a blessing at any gathering of strangers.
A typical day for a cleric involves waking, a prayer-
toast, breakfast, preparing spells, and a period of work. Evening is for friends, family, telling stories, and personal interests. The church uses no formal titles, though those who bear one from a guild or profession normally use that within the church as well. The church has an informal knightly order that promotes good, seeks out evil, and changes its name often.
Cayden was a courageous mortal, although often his 
courage was bolstered by a wineskin or flank. He expects his followers to be brave in the face of danger, though there is no shame in retreat—he is the god of bravery, not reckless stupidity contrary to common sense.
His festive temples re-
semble common ale halls, and attract members of all social classes. He has few buildings that function only as temples; most are actual alehouses bearing a shrine to him above the bar, and a few are orphan-ages sponsored by the church. Religious items are usually functional rather  than decorative.
Cayden’s church essentially has no 
hierarchy, as none of his priests really like other people telling them what to do. The god himself sometimes has to send visions or dreams to his priests to encourage them to meet on an issue and decide a plan of action, otherwise the priests assume the best person to deal with a problem is the one to discover it. Most priests are friendly with each other, and though there can be personal rivalries, they are rarely anything that can’t be solved with a bar fight. Formal raiment is a simple brown tunic or robe with a wine-red  
stole bearing his ale-mug symbol (adventurer-priests of the faith sometimes carry a magical stole that doubles as a rope and can extend beyond its normal length). 
Services to Cayden  always include a 
toast or a song. An official church holiday often resembles a festival more than a time of 
worship. While every day is reason for a celebration, two days merit extra attention; one is First Brewing, 
where a small amount of the first harvest of the 
year is set aside to ferment, and the other is the 
Ascension, held on the first day of the year in 
honor of Cayden becoming a god. His simple 
holy text is the Placard of Wisdom , condensing 
his divine philosophy into a few short phrases 
suitable for hanging on the wall.
His clerics may prepare neutralize poison  
as a 3rd-level spell. They may spontaneously 
cast knock  as a 1st-level spell but only to 
open welds, shackles, or chains used to 
imprison or hobble someone. Their 
create water  spell can create ale or wine 
(1 cup per level), and their create food 
and water  spell can be used to make ale or 
wine rather than water (which spoils at the 
same rate the food does). His bards may 
learn knock  as if it were a 2nd-level spell on 
the bard spell list.pICK YOUR p OISON
School  conjuration (healing) [mind-affecting];
Level  Brd 1, Clr 1 (Cayden Cailean)
EFFECT
Casting Time 1 standard action
Components  V, S, DF 
EFFECT
Range  touch 
Target  creature touched
Duration  10 minute/level
Saving Throw Fortitude negates (harmless); Spell 
Resistance  yes (harmless)
DESCRIpTION
This spell converts even the most deadly poison into an intoxicating alcohol. If 
the subject fails a saving throw against a 
poison effect, instead of the poison’s normal effect, she 
suffers a –2 penalty on attacks, 
saves, and checks, and feels intoxicated as if she’s just had 
a very strong drink. This penalty 
stacks with itself (two failed saving 
throws results in a –4 penalty, three is –6, 
and so on).
This spell does not affect any poison effects 
that occurred before the spell was cast. When 
the spell expires, the penalty ends and the poison’s 
normal effect applies.