21
1
Gods: Iomedae
who cannot handle the rigors of battle work in courtrooms 
and as advisors to nobles and city leaders. News of witch-burnings and pillaging by soldiers and mercenaries in Iomedae’s name has troubled church elders, and they are considering authorizing a small branch of the church to investigate these stories and rein in activities that exceed the goddess’s teachings; unfortunately, such a job would be unpopular, and the elders would have a difficult time finding enough priests willing to conduct an inquiry of their own brethren.
Her temples are whitewashed buildings that double as 
courts and living space for holy knights. Arched entrances, pillared courtyards, statues of knights, and fountains are common decorations. Her followers also use old churches of Aroden, slowly replacing the dead god’s ornamentation with that of Iomedae’s so as to not disturb the sensibilities of the dwindling number of Aroden’s priests.
The church is organized into circles, each consisting of 
10 to 50 priests or knights of similar ability, attitude, and rank. The leader of a circle is called a Sword Knight, and each Sword Knight is part of a higher-ranked circle reporting to a superior Sword Knight. The high priest or priestess of the church is called the First Sword Knight of Iomedae; her circle is the First Circle, comprised of 14 Second Sword Knights, each of whom leads a Second Circle, and so on. There is much competition to join a circle led by a famously valorous Sword Knight, and it is a mark of honor to be selected for such a knight’s circle. The Sword Knight ranks correspond to military ranks in standard armies (general, colonel, major, and so on). Formal raiment is a white cassock with gold or yellow trim and matching mitre.
While priests and knights set aside an 
hour per day for prayer, the church usually only holds public worship once a week for 1 to 2 hours, depending on local interest. They celebrate the Inheritor’s Ascendance on the first day of Arodus each year, marking the anniversary of Iomedae becoming a goddess. Her holy text is The Acts of Iomedae (usually just called “The Acts ”), a recounting of 11 personal 
miracles performed in ancient times by Iomedae throughout Avistan and Garund as demonstrations of the power of Aroden.
Clerics may prepare holy sword as an 8th-level 
spell. Clerics may prepare good hope and mark of justice as 
4th-level spells, paladins as 3rd-level spells.bURST OF gLORY
School  enchantment (compulsion) [mind-affecting];   
Level  Clr 5, Pal 4 (Iomedae)
CASTINg
Casting Time 1 standard action
Components  V, S, DF
EFFECT
Range  10 ft.
Area  10 ft. radius burst, centered on you
Duration  1 round/level
Saving Throw none; Spell Resistance yes (harmless)
DESCRIpTION
Targets in the area gain a +1 sacred 
bonus on attack rolls and saves 
against fear effects, plus 1 
temporary hit point per caster level (maximum +20).  You 
shine with white or golden 
radiance equal to a torch for 
the duration of the spell, 
though you can dismiss 
the glow as a free action.