20
Pathfinder Chronicles: Gods and Magic
Iomedae
Justice and honor are a heavy burden for  
the righteous.
THE INHERITOR
Goddess of valor, rulership, justice, and honor
Alignment  LG
Domains  Glory, Good, Law, Sun, War
Favored Weapon LongswordCenters of Worship Andoran, Cheliax, Galt, 
Lastwall, Mendev, Molthune, Nirmathas, Sargava
Nationality  Chelaxian
As a mortal, Iomedae rose to prominence in the era of the Shining Crusade, where she led the Knights of Ozem in a series of victories over the Whispering 
Tyrant. Success in the Test of the Starstone  a short 
time later granted the valiant swordswoman a spark of divinity and the attention of Aroden, who took her on as his herald. Today, Iomedae’s church has absorbed most of Aroden’s remaining followers and devotes a great deal of its focus to the Mendevian Crusades against the horror of the Worldwound. Followers of Iomedae have a strong sense of justice and fairness and an even stronger dedication to swordcraft, statesmanship, and bringing civilization to “savage” people. Her priests have a reputation for trustworthiness that serves them well in political affairs. Iomedae appears as a fierce Chelish mistress of the sword, complete with full battle armor, heraldic markings, and resplendent shield.
Iomedae is a righteous knight, spreading the good 
word and crushing evil with the force of her presence and mighty sword. Though skilled in war, she is not a war-deity. She would rather convince evildoers to surrender their arms in honorable surrender than cut them down in the midst of battle, but she is fearless and willing to fight for what she believes in. As Aroden’s followers turned to her for comfort when he died, she informally enforces his teachings as well, although she is more forward-looking in her goals and doesn’t let herself be constrained by the events of the past. She loathes incorrigible evil, demon-spawn, traitors, and those who abuse good in the name of greater good.
Iomedae intervenes in the form of mundane objects 
reshaping into sword-like forms, mysterious white or golden lights on a person or object, or a compass-like pull on a longsword or other long metal weapon. She shows her displeasure by f lickering lights, damaging weapons against inferior materials, and by gold or silver items becoming dull and heavy.A typical follower of Iomedae is a right-minded, hard-
working person, helpful toward others and accepting help when it is needed. As they believe in justice and honor, Iomedae’s worshipers gravitate toward kind and charismatic leaders, whether it be a benevolent noble landowner, an order-minded sheriff, or a good-natured mayor.
Iomedae’s avatar is a majestic woman in white and 
gold, fully armored, and carrying a shield and longsword; the light from her shield blinds all 
evil, and the force of her aura causes the corrupt to 
weaken and collapse. Her herald is the Hand of the Inheritor, a golden-skinned angel with 
a halo of blades like a blade barrier  that he can also 
use as a lethal shield. The church is known for 
its many saints, all of them dead mortals granted 
power and sometimes a new form in the afterlife. Notable 
divine servants are Jingh (a wheel of white metal that burns 
with golden fire), Saint Lymirin (a winged human priestess who can take an eagle-headed form), and Peace Through 
Vigilance (an exuberant, celestial, young gold dragon).
Iomedae is on good terms with Abadar, Cayden Cailean, 
Erastil, Sarenrae, Shelyn, and Torag, seeing in them supplementary or parallel interests. She does not deal with evil deities or fiends of any status (including Asmodeus, as she was not present for the creation of the world or the binding of Rovagug), though she enlists the aid of the Empyreal Lords when appropriate. To all others she is indifferent, hoping to inspire them to great deeds but not setting her plans aside to do so.
Priests, T emples, and the Church
All of Iomedae’s priests are clerics or paladins, though she has many ranger followers serving the church. Priests must act honorably, show courage in battle, uphold righteous laws, and bring evildoers to justice. They must set a good example for common folk, especially children, both in appearance and attitude, and even the most battle-weary priest stands proud and tall in the presence of impressionable youths. Some refuse to enter a city if they are dirty, stopping by an outlying inn or home for wash-water. They take their responsibilities very seriously and most conduct themselves like great knights. Some priests vow to never use a weapon other than a longsword, though this oath is not required by the church. In their pursuit of fairness and justice, most have several ranks in Sense Motive to better help them weed out liars.
Of all the good churches on Golarion, Iomedae’s is 
the most aggressive in seeking out and fighting evil. Her priests prefer to be out questing rather than doing mundane tasks in a city. Layfolk and talented acolytes staff most in-city positions, though veteran priests recovering from injuries or illness prefer to work in the temples rather than rest and convalesce. Older and infirm priests 