46
Pathfinder Chronicles: Gods and Magic
the conf lict unfold and only taking action at the end of 
a fight to dispatch the wounded—an act of mercy that still sickly parallels the morbid interests of their god. They are fond of the spells deathwatch  and death knell  and 
have an annoying habit of refusing to heal even the most gravely injured allies. They create cursed magic items (or twist those lacking a curse) so they fail or hinder the user at the worst possible time and use divinations to predict upcoming disasters they can witness.
Gyronna (The Angry Hag) : This goddess only allows 
females into her priesthood. People fear her clergy for their ability to poison the minds of others with hate, turning friends against each other and making enemies out of allies (though they are not above knifing someone in an alley if it suits their purposes). They have been known to swap infants for demon-tainted creatures from their own horrid wombs. Her priestesses favor loose black smocks, typically ragged at the bottom. Her symbol is a bloodshot eye.
Hanspur (The Water Rat) : This god’s priests are clerics, 
druids, or rangers. His druids may prepare water walk  as 
a 3rd-level spell. His rangers may prepare water breathing  
as a 2nd-level spell. Some legends say that Hanspur was once a mortal priest of Gozreh; murdered in his sleep by a traveling companion, his god raised him as an unstable guardian of the waterways. His symbol is a rat walking on water or standing on a log.
Kurgess (The Strong Man) : This strongman demigod 
was a favorite of Cayden Cailean and Desna in life, and it is commonly understood that those two deities helped elevate him to divinity after his death; some believe he is actually their half-mortal son. His traveling priests are welcomed at temples of Cayden and Desna with open arms.
Milani (The Everbloom) : Devotees of this minor goddess 
of uprisings are used to intense periods of work followed by years of inactivity, and as such they usually start families. The faithful understand that their line of work often leads to death, and martyrdom is a common fate in times of turmoil. They believe (and have evidence they say proves) that anyone truly devout who is martyred will rise again, healthy and whole, to continue the fight against evil, and that those who die in Milani’s service have a strong chance of being reborn in the faith again. Some priests claim to be the fourth or fifth incarnation of past followers of the goddess, able to access memories of past lives with the proper magic and meditation.
Naderi (The Lost Maiden) : Originally just a divine 
assistant to Shelyn who watched over couples whose love was forbidden by their race, culture, or families, she became something more when one of her young pairs chose to kill themselves rather than live apart. Shocked at her sudden and accidental elevation to divinity, she f led from Shelyn (whose wrath she feared) and eventually became the goddess of suicides, romantic suicides in particular.  Shelyn has tried to reconcile with her many times, but strange circumstances always manage to keep them apart. The Lost Maiden appears as a large-eyed, pretty (but not quite beautiful) young woman, soaked to the bone with water and carrying a tiny dagger.
Razmir (the Living God) : Built on arcane magic and a 
phenomenal lie at its center, the cult of Razmir the Living God controls an entire country with the false deity at its head. Lacking the staples of healing magic that all clerics command, the cult relies on obscure arcane spells, secret “holy” magic items, and simple folk medicine to deal with illness and injury. Razmiran is remote enough (sandwiched between accursed Ustalav and feywarded Kyonin) that most people along the Inner Sea accept without question that the Living God is truly one of the Ascended, as they have no reason to doubt it. Those living within and near the theocracy have seen Razmir’s priests perform magic and there is little reason to doubt his declaration of godhood. 
Groetus Kurgess Milani