50
Minderhal
Pathfinder Chronicles: Gods and Magic
ogres celebrate by raiding, looting, 
and raping. The waxing moon is his sister’s belly growing large with another child or Haggakal turning to look upon the world again (or both, as ogres keep no records and have trouble remembering how they told the story the last time).
Minderhal (He Who Makes and 
Unmakes) : Originally a stone giant 
deity of law and crafting, he gained popularity with other races during the time of the Runelords. With the collapse of the Thassilonian Empire, his religion fell out of favor and now almost all of his remaining worshipers are stone giants (though some of the Mammoth Lord tribes revere him). In the height of his popularity, he was depicted as a powerful crafter and builder or a raging rocky colossus, depending on his mood. Mortals prayed to him for advice on matters of law, justice, architecture, stonework, and metalwork. The stone giants prefer to carve his image in soft stone, showing him as a bearded, wise, and strong elder giant. His clerics may prepare repel metal or stone , spike growth , and stone tell as if 
they were on the cleric spell list.
Thremyr (First Jarl) : This ancient being is a creature 
from another age and might still be sleeping to this day if the Starstone ’s impact hadn’t awakened him. He looks 
like a colossal frost giant made of ice, with a beard and hair of salt, and eyes and nails of cold blue gems. When he walks, he sheds pieces of himself that turn into ice trolls, strange fey, or just thick snow. He loves treasure, especially gems, mithral, silver, and platinum, and to sleep on piles of his loot hidden from mortal eyes. He does not feel protective toward any of his children but instinctively reciprocates prayers and sacrifices with the old magic at his command.
Urazra (Breaker of Bones) : This god has gained much 
popularity among the younger and more brutal stone giants, particularly young males who tire of herding and long for the excitement of raiding. He promises his followers strength, fortitude, and immunity to pain in exchange for acts of savagery and living sacrifices (typically creatures captured during raids). Elder giants oppose this faith, as it rejects wisdom and civilization in favor of the most bestial aspects of giant nature, things best left behind ages before. Persuasive younger priests attract followers who accept the controversial idea that strength and force of will are more important than knowledge or history. Followers of Urazra identify with bear totems, and most champions of the faith have levels in the barbarian class.
Zursvaater (Prince of Steel) : This 
secretive deity shuns contact with most other divine beings, focusing his attention on events in the mortal world. He constantly urges his followers to war on other races, taking slaves and resources so they can improve their own equipment and conduct more effective raids. He discourages fighting between fire giant clans and has been known to relocate entire settlements to prevent such conf licts. Several fire giant “kings” are half-fiends, usually born of fire giant queens (and apparently the male giants do not object to this cuckolding). Sculptures of Zursvaater depict a mighty, armored fire giant with a closed-faced helm, sometimes holding a heavy chain in one hand.
Gnome Gods
Lacking the need for religion in the First World, gnomes brought no racial deities with them to Golarion, but they have since adopted various common faiths as their own, in particular Cayden Cailean, Desna, Shelyn, Nethys, Torag, and Erastil (all of whom are reenvisioned as gnomes). In places where technology is more popular than magic, the young goddess Brigh is a common recipient of gnome prayers, and they depict her proportioned like a gnome with hair made of multicolored metallic wires. Sivanah has a small following among gnome illusionists, though her mysterious nature is frustrating to most curious gnomes looking for wonders and answers in the world. Their only unique deity is Nivi Rhombodazzle, mainly worshiped by the deep gnomes.
Nivi Rhombodazzle (The Gray Polychrome) : According 
to the deep gnomes, Nivi was once a normal gnome who found joy in games of chance, whether cards, dice, or stranger means of play. She didn’t care if she won or lost, as it was the tension of the game that excited her; unfortunately, this meant she ran up a lot of debts and had to f lee when it came time to pay a particularly inf luential client. She found a passage to the Darklands and the countless wonders there, from magical pools that suspend Fandarra