9
1
Gods: Calistria
A typical temple has many rooms with lockable doors for 
privacy, and many are converted mansions or large homes. 
Because of their association with sex, temple priests are known for giving advice on contraceptive herbs, assisting with births, and taking in unwanted infants; some are even believed to terminate unwanted pregnancies. Each temple tends toward good, evil, or neutrality, and this inf luences the activities that take place there. These philosophical differences are the source of many intertemple feuds, some going back a hundred years with blood shed on both sides.
Good temples try to serve the community and usually 
function as a brothel with sacred prostitutes, as they believe that the relief of sexual needs eases other tensions that might lead to violence. Regular visits by customers usually mean the temple is a hotbed of gossip and clandestine talks about double-dealing and revenge. Evil temples are much like thieves’ guilds, a place to hear news, seek  evidence of unfaithful lovers, and make shady plans, only sometimes while enjoying a lover. Priests at evil temples tend to be very competitive with each other, trying to outdo their rivals in feats of intimacy, trickery, and vengeance, and, as a result, many evil priests are forced to wander for their own safety. Neutral temples (particularly elven temples) try to mix both, casually entertaining the lonely and lusty while avoiding the more violent plans for vengeance.  
The church hierarchy is very casual, 
with priests valued for their ability to persuade others (or feared for their history of revenge) rather than magical power, though a powerful priest may be able to persuade or frighten more than a weak one. Because of the faction rivalries, most temples focus on local issues and ignore the problems of other factions. Every full priest in the church has a vote in his or her temple’s affairs.
Formal clothing is very 
scant, usually yellow silk that covers little and conceals even less, often augmented with henna dyes on the palms of the hands and in narrow bands on the arms. Some like to add black accents to clothing resembling a wasp’s colors but eventually 
outgrow this habit, as the insect represents the 
goddess but is not inherently divine or worthy 
of emulation.
Ceremonies honoring Calistria often 
involve ritual sex but generally not the 
orgiastic excesses described in salacious 
stories by those outside the church. 
Typically a ritual consists of quiet 
chanting, blessed wine, and 
perhaps a few passionate 
kisses among interested 
parties. In other rituals, 
priests relate how they 
deceived their enemies or 
enacted elaborate revenge 
plots. Her holy text is The 
Book of Joy , a guide to many 
exotic passions.
Priests of the Savored Sting may 
prepare rage as a 3rd-level 
spell and suggestion  
as a 4th-level spell 
(though those with 
the Charm domain 
have access to it earlier).LOVER ’S VEN gEANCE
School  enchantment (compulsion) [mind-affecting];     
Level  Brd 3, Clr 3, Sor/Wiz 3 (Calistria)
CASTINg
Casting Time 1 minute
Components  V
EFFECT
Range  touch
Target  creature touched
Duration  up to 1 day/level (D) or until discharged
Saving Throw Will negates (harmless); 
Spell Resistance Yes (harmless)
DESCRIpTION
You inspire yourself or a lover to a vengeful rage 
against a chosen enemy who must be a lover who has 
wronged you in some way. If cast on you, the next time you are in combat with that enemy, you gain 
the benefits of a rage  spell. If cast on a lover, he or 
she gains the benefits of a rage  spell the next time 
the lover is in combat against your enemy. This 
variant of the spell must be cast within 1 hour of 
an intimate encounter with the target. The rage  
effect lasts 1 round per level. This spell counts as a contingency  spell on the target for the purpose 
of multiple contingent effects.
