Hello and welcome to Alchemy and Pathfinder second edition remastered. In this video, I'll be discussing alchemical items such as bombs, poisons, and elixirs, including mutagens in a general sense, and anything specifically associated with the alchemist class, such as quick alchemy and versatile vials, will be saved for another class specific video all about alchemists.

Alchemy can be thought of as sort of the science of the Pathfinder universe. Its practice is based on principles such as chemistry, biology, and botany, but with a fantasy twist. As such, alchemical items may resemble magic items and function in much the same way. But it's important to remember that alchemy is not magic. An elixir of life may function very closely to a healing potion. And drinking liquid from a vial that instantly heals our wounds might feel like magic to our modern sensibilities, but alchemical elixirs are not magical. They do not register dispels like detect magic, nor can their effects be counteracted by dispel magic.

And another important note regarding alchemical items is you do not need to be a member of the alchemist class to use or even create alchemical items.

Anyone can drink an alchemical elixir or light an alchemical sunrod, not just alchemists. The alchemical crafting feat is required to create alchemical items.

This process works much the same way as crafting anything else, except when you critically fail a crafting check to create an alchemical item, something bad happens in addition to you losing your spent resources as normal. The exact result is up to the GM, but will usually mean that the bomb you're creating explodes in your face or you accidentally expose yourself to poisonous chemicals. For more information about the crafting process, check out my videos on crafting. You can find links to those in the description.

Also, it's worth noting that there is no alchemy skill. Instead, the crafting skill is associated with alchemical items in much the same way that arcana, nature, religion, and occultism relate to their magical traditions. meaning you use the crafting skill to identify or recall knowledge about alchemical items.

And last, most alchemical items include the consumable trait, meaning they can only be used once and then are lost.

This includes alchemical poisons and oils as well. One dose means one use.

Let's take a closer look at each type of alchemical item, starting with alchemical bombs. Alchemical bombs are basically Pathfinder grenades, but they don't always deal damage, and they can take many shapes and forms. Sometimes they are ball-shaped grenades, but they could also be glass flasks or even small bags of goo. Regardless of shape, all bombs are distinguished from other alchemical items by the bomb trait and have the same basic stats when used in combat. Unless otherwise noted in their descriptions, all alchemical bombs are marshall ranged weapons. Bombs also have a range increment of 20 feet or four squares. And note that although bombs are usually thrown at targets like a grenade, they do not have the thrown trait. Therefore, you do not add your strength bonus to damage when throwing an alchemical bomb. And an important note to remember is since bombs have the consumable trait, they cannot have runes etched on them, nor can they benefit from other effects that apply the benefits of a rune. For example, a bomb cannot benefit from the runic weapon spell. Let's look at alchemist fire as an example. This is a glass vial of volatile liquids that you throw at a target. The glass shatters on impact, causing the liquid inside to burst into fire. It has the alchemical trait, meaning it's not magical. It has the bomb trait, meaning it uses the alchemical bomb stats found on page 281 of player core 1 as a foundation that's further modified by the alchemist's fire stat block. And most bombs that deal damage have the splash trait. So, let's take a moment to talk about that. If an attack with a splash weapon succeeds or critically succeeds, then all creatures within 5 ft of the target, including that target, take the listed splash damage. And on a failure, the target of the attack still suffers the splash damage, but no one else does. Note that splash damage is automatic. If the attack roll is a hit, then everyone within 5 ft of the target suffers the damage. No extra attack rolls are needed, nor does anyone get to make a reflex save to lessen or avoid the splash damage. And also be aware that splash damage is never doubled due to a critical success. So in the case of alchemist fire, if you throw this at a target and score a hit, the target suffers 1d8 fire damage plus one persistent fire damage and one fire splash damage. Also, all creatures standing in adjacent squares to the target suffer one fire splash damage.

There is no saving throw to avoid this.

They just take the damage. On a critical hit, the target suffers 2d8 fire damage plus two persistent fire damage and one fire splash damage because again, splash damage is not multiplied due to a critical success. And also, all creatures adjacent to the target are going to suffer one fire splash damage as well. Note that splash damage is added to the base damage when resolving resistances and weaknesses. Meaning, if the target of an alchemist fire attack is weak to fire damage, that weakness will only be triggered once, not once for the base fire damage and then again for the splash fire damage. If the result of the attack roll is a failure, then only the target suffers one fire splash damage. And on a critical failure, nothing happens. I usually treat this as the bomb is just a dud and doesn't go off. But in the right situations, I might rule that it says fire to something behind the target instead. Using a bomb has the same action requirements as anything else. So it's one action to draw and one action to throw. Not really any different than drawing and throwing a dagger. Although the quick bomber feet available to Alchemists does reduce this to only one action.

The second type of alchemical item is alchemical poison. Poisons are basically portable afflictions. So rather than covering all of these rules here, I instead recommend you view my video all about afflictions, which I will include a link to in the description. For this discussion though, it is worth covering the methods of exposure that are available to alchemical poisons. Each poison will have at least one of the following traits: contact, ingested, inhaled, or injury. Contact poisons require direct contact with a creature's skin in order to take effect. These poisons are typically not used during combat encounters as they cannot be applied to weapons for delivery and often have onset periods of at least 1 minute. Also, when it comes to alchemical contact poisons, they only affect the first creature to touch them.

So if you apply a dose in such a way that more than one creature might make contact with it, the poison is only effective against the first. Ingested poisons must be eaten to affect their target. Typically, this means the poison is placed in food or drink and may require additional deception and stealth checks to be successful. Next, we have inhaled poisons. When these are applied, they create a 10-ft cube lasting for 1 minute and affecting every creature that enters the area. Raw specifically says entering the area, but I believe creatures who start their turn within the space would be affected, too. If a creature is aware of the poison gas, they can spend one action per turn to hold their breath and gain a plus two circumstance bonus to their saving throws. and a strong wind may remove this area of effect prior to the end of its one minute duration. Last are injury poisons. These are applied to weapons or ammunition that deal piercing or slashing damage and then function on the first strike made with said weapon. If that attack hits, then the target will need to make a saving throw. If it hit but did not deal any damage, for example, due to resistances, then the poison does not take effect except in the case of ammunition like arrows. If the attack misses, then the poison remains active on the weapon and you can try again. And on a critical failure, the poison does not affect the target and is lost. So basically, once you apply an injury poison to a piercing or slashing weapon, the poison remains active on it until you roll anything other than a failure on an attack. Each poison description will also detail how many free hands and actions are required to use the poison. For example, Belladonna is an ingested poison that requires one hand and one action to place in someone's food or drink. But black adder venom is an injury poison that requires two actions and two hands to apply the poison to a weapon.

Those are the basics of alchemical poisons. Again, for a full explanation of how they work, including what each stage means and how they function, check out my video on afflictions that's linked in the description.

And the last type of alchemical item to cover is the elixir. Elixirs are essentially magic potions except again they're not actually magical. They're one use consumable items that you drink and they apply their effect. That's pretty straightforward, but there is one special type of elixir worth discussing.

Mutagens. If regular alchemy is considered to be the science of Pathfinder, then mutagens are the realm of mad scientists like Dr. Jackekal and Mr. Hyde. Mutagens are alchemical elixirs, so they are consumable items you have to drink in order to gain their effects. But they differ from regular elixirs in that they always have both a beneficial effect and a drawback. For example, the juggernaut mutagen grants a bonus to fortitude saves and temporary hit points, but also applies a penalty to will saves, perception checks, and initiative roles. And all mutagens are polymorph effects. The rules for polymorph state that no creature may be under the effects of more than one polymorph effect at the same time. If they're subject to a polymorph effect and then targeted by a new polymorph effect, the new polymorph effect attempts to counteract the first. If it succeeds, then the first polymorph effect ends and the new one begins. What this basically means is you can't drink two mutagens and gain the effects of both. And furthermore, you can't choose to end the effects of the first one in favor of the second one. Instead, the second would need to make a counteract check against the first one.

Essentially, the two mutagens are fighting it out in your system to see which one is going to win and be effective. When making these counteract checks, each mutagen has a counteract level equal to half their item level rounded up, a counteract DC equal to a standard DC for its item level, and a counteract modifier equal to a standard DC for its item level minus 10. Now, this may sound complicated, and honestly, it is, but this situation only occurs when you try drinking a second mutagen before the first one wears off.

As long as you don't do that, then you don't need to worry about counteracting anything. The entire process and rules for how this counteracting works is beyond the scope of this video. But if you do want more details about how counteracting works, I'll leave links to my full video on counteracting and my video on polymorph spells in the description. And note that although these mutagens are not magical, any attacks gained through drinking them are considered to be magical. For example, the claws gained from a bestial mutagen are treated as being magical when attacking enemies that are resistant to non-magical attacks. But since they are not really magical, they still don't register to spells like detect magic.

So, there you have it, a quick look at alchemy and alchemical items. If you have any questions, please leave them in the comments below. And as always, I'd like to take a quick moment to say thank you to everybody out there who supports me. Whether that's by clicking the like button, subscribing to the channel, subscribing to the Patreon, buying a super thanks. Everything you folks do to support me is greatly appreciated. And with that, thanks for watching. Take care and happy gaming.

[Music]