Hey everybody, Dave here with another Pathfinder rule reminder for you. And today we're going to be looking at non-lethal damage. So non-lethal damage is an option in the rules that allow you to make attacks with the intent to disable your opponent as opposed to kill them. Because this is a high fantasy actionoriented adventure role playing game, the default rules in the game uh assume lethal damage. It assumes that you are trying to kill the goblin or dragon or manticor or whatever that uh your party is facing. But it does provide non-lethal damage options for those who want to subdue their targets. So, you might want to use non-lethal damage when you want to capture somebody and question them if you're a bounty hunter and you're going to get paid more to bring your target back alive than dead or you're in any kind of situation where you don't want things to escalate. So, instead of of killing the town's people, you subdue them with non-lethal damage or maybe for those times when uh one of your party members gets controlled or goes mad and uh you got to you got to put them down without killing them. These are all situations where you might want to use non-lethal damage instead of the regular lethal damage uh rules. So, what does this mean when you use non-lethal damage? Well, in the the the the vast range of combat, it doesn't mean a lot.

It really only comes down to the last hit that reduces your target to zero hit points. If that is dealt using lethal damage, then in most cases, they die. Or if they're a significant uh NPC or a player character, they fall unconscious and they gain the dying condition.

That's lethal damage. the normal damage rules. If that final hit that reduces them to zero hit points is made with non-lethal damage, then instead they just fall unconscious.

Uh this does not impose the dying condition. You don't have to make recovery checks. This does not interact in any way with the wounded condition.

You don't gain the wounded condition or elevate it when you leave an unconscious state. If that last hit is dealt with non-lethal damage, then no dying condition, no wounded condition, no recovery checks, essentially they fall unconscious, they gain the unconscious condition, they have zero hit points, and they're effectively stable. Again, none of these recovery checks. There's no hard rule for how long they stay in that unconscious state, but if they receive any healing and they go above zero hit points, they would become conscious again. And in absence of that, it it like I said, it doesn't give you a hard guideline. It just says like about a minute or so. Uh basically that's you know that's Pathfinder language for when this combat encounter is over they'll regain consciousness normally. As always GMs evaluate the situation however makes sense to you. So some situations might cause you to to prolong that unconscious state because again there's not a hard rule. That's just the guidance in the book. One minute. So how do you deal non-lethal damage? Some weapons, some melee weapons have the non-lethal trait.

And if a weapon has the non-lethal trait, like a fist attack, most unarmed attacks that aren't things like biting and claws, uh the sap, a whip, these all have the non-lethal trait. Non-lethal trait weapons always deal non-lethal damage unless you do something special.

So monks can deal lethal damage with their unarmed attacks, but in absence of any other ability, rule, special circumstance, non-lethal weapons, weapons with the non-lethal trait deal exclusively non-lethal damage.

Um, so, uh, for some people it might make sense that they carry one lethal weapon and one non-lethal weapon. If you're someone who's playing like a bounty hunter and you think you're going to be uh dealing a lot of non-lethal damage, you might want to invest in like a shifting rune for your weapon, so you can convert it between uh similar weapons that either deal lethal damage or non-lethal damage.

The bounty hunter archetype also has a feat called tools of the trade that would allow you to do an additional 1d4 precision damage with certain specific weapons that have the non-lethal trait.

So that might be something you're looking for if you want to do this non-lethal damage. And the same is going to be true for spells. A a very very few spells have the non-lethal trait, but there are a few primarily days and phantom pain. Both of those spells have the non-lethal trait and deal non-lethal damage. Uh, and so that would work just like making a non-lethal damage attack with a non-lethal weapon. If if the damage imposed by days or phantom pain reduces a target to zero hit points, they would fall unconscious and not get the dying condition. And although it's not strictly spelled out, I don't believe I at least I haven't seen it strictly spelled out, I believe the possible persistent damage that is provided by phantom paint would also be non-lethal.

Uh, so those are the primary ways of dealing non-lethal damage with a weapon with a non-lethal trait that's designed to do non-lethal damage. Your sap, your fist, a whip, or with spells that have the non-lethal trait, days, phantom pain, and there might be a few others that I'm not aware of.

Now, that doesn't mean that you can't also make a non-lethal attack with a traditional standard lethal weapon.

Any regular weapon, be it a mace, an axe, a long sword, whatever, a long bow, can deal non-lethal damage if you are willing to take a -2 circumstance penalty to that attack.

So, this could be you've got your sword and so slashing with your your blade.

You're going to take a pommel and you're going to smack someone in the forehead with the pommel in hopes of knocking them unconscious. That might be one way that you do a non-lethal damage attack while using a long sword. Uh the damage itself is not changed. It would do the same damage as normal. it would have a negative two circumstance penalty to the attack because you're using your weapon in a way that it was not designed to be used. Sort of like making an improvised attack, an improvised weapon attack. But if it hits, it does the exact same damage. It just has the non-lethal trait. And if that's the hit that lowers the target to zero hit points, it would not kill them. It would knock them unconscious. Axe, turn it sideways, use the flat of the blade, smack somebody in the head, and so on.

Um, it's worth mentioning that there are a couple of feats that grant a better access to making non-lethal attacks with regular weapons. Uh, I know investigators can take the take down expert feat that lets them make or lets them deal non-lethal damage with pretty much all of their weapon attacks without suffering that negative two penalty. And uh gladiators uh the gladiator archetype can take the stage fighting feat that does basically the same thing. List them make non-lethal damage attacks with regular weapons without suffering the -2 penalty. Also, it may be worth mentioning that the opposite is kind of true. You can take a non-lethal weapon and deal lethal damage with it by suffering a negative two penalty. So, if you've got a sap and you want to deal lethal damage with it, you can do so.

You suffer a negative two penalty, but you uh but you deal lethal damage and you could potentially kill somebody with that strike. I would say like, you know, you're you're taking the negative2 penalty because you're specifically trying to hit them in the throat with it. Something like that would be the narrative explanation for why that that works. Now, there is no such provision.

uh there is no such broad provision for spells. So even though you can take a a long sword and suffer a negative -2 penalty to deal non-lethal damage with it, you cannot just take a negative -2 penalty to a spell that makes a spell attack and turn it into non-lethal damage. But uh there are some things you can do which we'll talk about in just a moment. So I also want to talk a little bit about immunity to non-lethal damage.

Some creatures, especially things like golems, have immunity to non-lethal damage. And the example in the book is is basically it doesn't matter how hard you're punching a tank with your bare fist, you're not going to deal, you know, you're not going to incapacitate it, right? And that's basically the immunity that uh creatures like constructs that specifically have immunity to non-lethal damage. um the the benefit that they have. You're you're you're never going to kill an iron golem by punching it with non-lethal damage. If you want to uh destroy the constructs with lethal damage, you would have to suffer the negative -2 penalty to turn your non-lethal attacks lethal or use regular lethal weapons and lethal means. Now, uh there are a number of different questions. Um, some of these came from uh one of my patrons. So, as always, thank you everybody out there who supports me through my Patreon. And uh I think one or two of them I also noticed just from research on the net. But let's take a look at some of these uh questions that come up. Can a spell without the non-lethal trait be made non-lethal? Again, no. Not there's not like a blanket rule like there is with with weapons being used to do non lethal damage, but there is a wizard feat called the non-lethal spell feat that uh it takes one action, you cast it, and if the following action is to cast a spell that does not have the the death or void traits, then that uh spell gains the non-lethal trait and deals non-lethal damage.

So, um, this could turn your force barrage, the oldfashioned magic missile, maybe they're now stunbolts. You've customized the spell as you're casting it by spinning an extra action. Uh, you know, some people say, "Well, wait a second. What about fireball? How do you turn a fireball non-lethal?" Well, maybe the fireball becomes a concussive blast with a bright bright light. It no longer does lethal damage, but it's basically a giant modern-day flashbang, you know, that that police might use to clear a room uh and stun people in it before they come in. Uh you're you're you're adjusting and changing the the magic involved, the weave and the magic and the spell wire, casting of that extra direction to make it non-lethal. This this may be a situation where you have to lean a little bit on roleplaying the result, see what the result of the spell is, and then tailor the narrative to fit that. But mechanically, uh, you know, like would the fireball still do fire damage? By raw, mechanically, yes. It's still doing fire damage. It's just doing non-lethal fire damage. Now, what mental gymnastics has to go along in the narrative to make sense of that is going to be up to the GM and the players to figure out. Uh me, I probably would no longer call it fire damage. You know, I would, like I said, I would say it's a concussive blast with a bright light or whatever. That would still do the same thing. The only the only problem would be if uh you're using that fireball to deal non-lethal damage against a target that is weak to fire.

Uh in those cases, they would still take the their weakness would still be triggered. They would still take that extra damage. Um but and it is still fire damage. It's just non-lethal.

So, I I'm I'm the first to say that there's there may be some some give and take between, you know, the players and the GM to figure figure out what makes most sense in the narrative to make this work. But rules is written. What the rules say is that it just gains the non-lethal trait. And all that non-lethal trait means is if you reduce the target to zero, then they fall unconscious instead of dying. everything else is the same. Still fire damage, still triggers fire weaknesses or whatever. Um, it just would not kill somebody. But I agree, you may have to do a little bit of a little bit of work to figure out how to make that work in the narrative. Um, likewise, there's the question about like the disintegrate spell. So, what happens here? Um, can you use the uh wizard's uh non-lethal spell feat to cast a non-lethal disintegrate spell? Yeah, you can. So, what happens when that reduces a person to to zero hit points? Does it turn them to dust like it says in the description of the spell, or do they just fall unconscious?

Personally, as a GM, I would I would lean on whatever the cer's intent is. If a player spends the effort to make their disintegrate spell non-lethal, I I I would just have it knock the person out. You know, it is clear that that is what they're trying to accomplish. Let's not penalize them for rolling too well. Um if if if they're taking the time to spend the extra action on that feed to make it non-lethal, just let it knock them out.

But as always, uh, GMs are always going to have the final call and the final rule, and they may rule differently. Uh, I also want to mention that, uh, in the Agents of Edge adventure path, there is a blanket rule that basically says that the assumption in this campaign is that players are doing non-lethal damage as opposed to the regular assumption that they're doing lethal damage. So, in that adventure path, because the players are supposed to be city guards who have had extra training on how to subdue and capture their targets, all of their damage, even spell damage, even poison damage, all damage period, is non-lethal.

And again, that's another place where you might have to do some work and some give and take to to figure out exactly how within the narrative that works. But that's the rule. Uh that is not a feat that people outside of that campaign can just take. But GMs just know like there's a precedent that exists for just having a blanket statement that says I allow you to deal non-lethal damage without any penalties, without anything else. And that is found in the agents of edge watch adventure path specifically.

It's in the players guide. Um, also, uh, kind of adjacent to regular spellcasting, uh, kineticists at fourth level can take a feat called safe elements that gives them the pacifying infusions action that works very much the same way as the wizard's non-lethal spell feat. They spend that action and then that turns their next impulse into a non-lethal damaging ability.

So, another question that comes up is, what if 99% of the damage is lethal? So, we've been we've been stabbing this this this target with swords and then someone walks up with their bare knuckle fist and punches them and that does non-lethal damage and that's the final hit that reduces them to zero. Um, does it make sense for them to fall unconscious when prior to that we've been stabbing them repeatedly?

So, a lot of that's going to come down to, you know, again, how you manage the the narration, how you describe these things in the narrative. Uh, a couple things to be aware of. Pathfinder second edition has tried to streamline rules and make them as easy as possible with the understanding that there is a living, breathing GM there who can intervene and say, but in this case, I don't think that rule is going to apply or this is how we're going to twist it.

That's the direction they've gone with second edition as opposed to having a lot of uh a lot of extra bookkeeping.

Like I I believe in in Pathfinder first edition, you had to keep track of how much damage was lethal and how much damage was non-lethal. And there you had to keep track of those two totals and non-lethal damage healed at a faster rate than than lethal damage. And there's all these different rules that doesn't exist in second edition.

By raw, all that matters is that last hit that lowers them to zero hit points.

Um, so what happens if you do 99% of the damage lethal and the last 1% non-lethal?

The same as if you had done all the damage as non-lethal. They fall unconscious instead of dying by raw. Um, also keep in mind that hit points hit points don't represent how much blood is in your body. Hit points represent your ability to avoid dying.

So that 99% of lethal damage could have been represented by you ducking, dodging, taking minor cuts, uh exhausting yourself by constantly having to parry away a an otherwise lethal attack at the very last second. And that that exhausts you and wears you down.

Uh, so a lot of it comes down to how you are describing the damage within the narration. If you've been describing it as you're literally running the person through with a sword 20 times leading up to that last hit, that's a little different.

But, uh, bottom line, official rule, all that matters is that very last hit. And again, GMs can choose to rule differently. There may be situations where you say, well, this person suffered all this lethal damage and the last hit was non-lethal.

find a way to work with your players. Uh maybe you say, "Yeah, they fall unconscious, but if you don't do something to stabilize them within three rounds or whatever you you think makes sense within the narrative you've constructed, they're going to start bleeding out and suffer the dying condition." Um, that's not a hard and fast rule. Again, these are things that you can think about as a GM to kind of find that balance between the two extremes of the lethal damage and the non-lethal situations. Another question that uh comes up is what about um energy damage? Uh you know, it makes sense that if I'm pommel striking somebody with my um with my sword that it does non-lethal damage, but what if I'm making a non-lethal attack with my flaming sword? What happens there?

Again, just like with the earlier example of of a non-lethal fireball, the same true for a flaming sword or an electrified sword or whatever, the damage becomes non-lethal. It still deals fire damage.

If you critically hit it, it can still do persistent fire damage. All of this damage is just nonlethal.

All that mean, and that doesn't mean anything at all, except if that damage reduces the target to zero, they fall unconscious instead of dying. Um, that's the RAW as usual. GMs, you can play with that however you want. Um, but just be aware that that is the official RAW ruling. Uh, and another question that comes up is, okay, so I can make a non-lethal attack with a a weapon by suffering a negative two circumstance penalty. Okay, I can see that with again the long sword doing the pommel strike.

You can see that with taking the battle axe, turning on the side, and smacking somebody with the flat of the blade instead of the edge of the blade. But how am I making a non-lethal attack with my long bow?

So, uh this is another one of those areas where you might want to have to lean in a little bit to um to uh roleplaying the result, see what the result is, and then tweaking the narrative to match that result.

Maybe that arrow uh didn't shoot the target. Maybe it instead cut through a rope that's holding a big wooden uh chandelier-l like handle holder that drops on the target's head and knocks them unconscious. Uh maybe that arrow uh strikes their helmet in such a way where the the arrow head does not penetrate the skin, but it has enough force to knock that helmet against their head and concuss them. or you know, maybe it you hit them in such a way that they stumble back and knock their head against something.

Again, this is an area where it's going to take give and take between the GM and the players to craft a narrative explanation that makes sense, and GMs are 100% free to play with this however they wish.

uh they can rule that you can't do non-lethal damage in certain situations, but again, these are what the official rules as written say. Okay, so that was my uh look at non-lethal damage. Uh if you have any questions about that, please let me know in the comments below. If you have any other situations where you've encountered a need for non-lethal damage in your games and had uh to craft these fun little narratives to figure out the explanation, share those stories as well. We'd love to hear from you. And as always, I want to take a moment to say thank you to everybody out there who supports me. Whether it's by leaving those comments, clicking the like button, subscribing to the channel, subscribing to the Patreon like the good person who sent me this uh initial question. I appreciate everything you folks do to support me. And with that, thanks for watching. Take care and happy gaming.

[Music]