Hello and welcome to Magic and Pathfinder second edition remastered part two prepared and spontaneous casting. Please note that this is an updated version of a previously released video. So much of this may be familiar with the main difference being changes in terminology such as spell levels becoming spell ranks. In this video, we're going to explore how prepared and spontaneous spellcasters each function, as well as spell slots and heightening.

And it's worth mentioning that this video will focus on foundational mechanics, and each class likely has its own ways of altering these mechanics, but covering all those exceptions is beyond the scope of this video. I may create class specific videos in the future to cover those points.

In Pathfinder, spellcasters are limited in the number of spells they can cast in a single day, as well as the power of those spells. This mechanic is dependent on the character's spell slots, which are dictated by their class and level.

Using bards as an example, in their class listing, we find this table. For example, we see here that a thirdle bard has three first rank spell slots and two second rank spell slots. Cantrips are a special kind of spell that do not use spell slots, and we'll discuss those in a future video. When a character casts a spell, that spell consumes one of their spell slots, which means this thirdle bard can cast three first rank spells and two second rank spells before needing to rest. After a full night's rest and time spent in the morning for daily preparations, the caster is reset to their daily aotment of spell slots.

The caster can also cast lower rank spells using higher rank spell slots through a process called heightening.

When you cast a spell using a spell slot that is higher than that spell's listed rank, the spell is heightened and is cast at a rank equal to the spell slot that was used. For example, fireball is a third rank spell and deals 6d6 damage, but it can be cast using any spell slot that is third rank or higher. If a fireball is cast using a fifth rank spell slot, then it becomes a fifth rank fireball spell. And we see an entry at the bottom of the description that reads heightened plus one, the damage increases by 2d6. And what this means is every time a fireball spell's rank is increased by one, its damage increases by 2d6. So a fifth rank fireball spell would deal 10d6 damage. 66 at its normal third rank, plus two more dice when it is heightened to fourth rank and two more dice when it is heightened once more to fifth rank. That's pretty easy.

But let's look at something like acid grip. This is a second rank spell that deals 2d8 acid damage plus 1d6 persistent damage. And we see a notation at the bottom that says heightened [snorts] plus two. The initial damage increases by 2d8 and the persistent damage increases by 1d6. Since it says plus two here, this bonus damage applies every time the spell is heightened by two ranks. So if acid grip is cast using a third rank spell slot, it becomes a third rank spell, but there is no change to damage. And if it is cast with a fourth rank spell slot, it becomes a fourth rank spell. Deals 48 acid damage plus another 2d6 persistent acid damage because the damage increases every time it is heightened by two ranks. At sixth rank, acid group deals 68 damage and 3d6 persistent damage and so on. And next, let's look at a spell like bless. This is a first rank spell and has no heightened entry at the bottom. A common misconception is that the lack of a heightened entry means it cannot be heightened, and that's not correct.

Spellcasters may have limits to what spells they are able to heighten, which we're going to talk about in just a minute, but it is possible to heighten any spell, not just those with a special heightened entry in their description.

So, if you cast bless with a sixth ranked spell slot, it becomes a sixth rank bless spell. But why would you do that if it doesn't gain any bonuses for being cast with a higher rank slot? And the answer to that is counteracting. I have a whole other video on the topic which I will link in the description, so I'm not going to go too deep into it here, but the higher the spell rank, the harder it is for someone to dispel it.

All spells can be counteracted by certain things like dispel magic, but bless in particular can also be counteracted by the Bane spell. So, if a caster wanted to be extra safe when casting bliss to either aid their friends or to counteract an enemy's bane spell, they might heighten it by spending a fourth rank spell slot. And it would then face counteract checks at fourth rank instead of first.

So, spell slots are used to cast spells.

And when a spell is cast using a slot higher than it listed rank, it becomes heightened to the same rank as the slot that was used. But how these spell slots are managed differs greatly between prepared spellcasters and spontaneous spellcasters.

Spellcasters and Pathfinder fall into one of those categories which is determined by their class. Prepared spellcasters include the cleric, druid, megas, witch, and wizard classes. And as the name implies, prepared spellcasters must plan their spells ahead of time. As part of their daily preparations, they must decide exactly how each spell slot will be used in advance. For example, a fifth level wizard has three first rank spell slots, three second rank slots, and two third rank slots. Every morning, these slots start as empty, and the wizard must choose how to fill them from the spells available to them. This wizard chooses Breathe Fire, Summon Animal, and Force Barrage as their first rank slots, then chooses Acid Grip, Invisibility, and Breathe Fire Heightened to second rank with their second rank slots, and then fills their third rank slots with two instances of Fireball. As you can see, if a prepared spellcaster wishes to cast the same spell multiple times, they must prepare it in multiple slots in the morning as part of their daily preparations. Also, prepared spellcasters automatically heighten all their spells. If they know how to cast the first rank version of a spell, then they also know how to cast the second rank, third rank, fourth rank, and other versions, too. And it's worth mentioning that some features or abilities may allow a prepared cer to swap out a spell they've already prepared for another one. Those are special circumstances. And for our purposes in this video, we're going to focus on the base rule, which is once a spell is prepared, it cannot be changed until the next day's preparations.

Spontaneous spellcasters like bards, oracles, sorcerers, and summoners work a little bit differently than prepared casters. Instead of assigning their spell slants at the start of each day with the spells they plan to use, spontaneous spellcasters get to choose which spell they're using a spell slot for at the moment they cast it. This grants spontaneous spellcasters a lot of freedom in how they choose to spend their spell slots, but there are a couple important limitations. First, spontaneous casters are much more limited in the variety of spells they can cast. For example, a first level bard has two spell slots and knows how to cast two spells, ignoring their cantrips. They don't have to decide in advance if they want to cast each of those spells once per day or cast the same spell twice, but they're still limited to just those two spells. A first level wizard, on the other hand, also starts with two spell slots, but knows five different spells. They have to choose in advance how those two spell slots will be used each day, but they have a more varied list of spell options to choose from. And the second big limitation is how spontaneous casters handle heightened spells. Prepared casters like our wizards and clerics are able to freely heighten any spell they know. If a cleric knows how to cast a first rank heal spell, then they're able to cast heal at any rank as long as they prepare it in a slot at the start of the day. But if a spontaneous caster like a sorcerer with a divine bloodline wishes to cast heal at different ranks, each rank of heal counts as a completely different spell in their repertoire. If a fifth level angelic sorcerer knows how to cast four first rank spells, four second rank spells, and three third rank spells. That list might look like this.

first rank, air bubble, alarm, heal, and runic weapon. For second rank, they know the second rank version of heal, the second rank version of runic weapon, spiritual armament, and translate. And for third rank, they know the third rank version of heal, holy light, and the third rank version of translate.

Spontaneous casters know fewer spells than prepared casters. And on top of that, they have to treat every individual rank of a spell as if it is a completely different spell. Meaning that in order to cast heal as a first rank spell, a second rank spell, and as a third rank spell, the spontaneous caster needs to sacrifice three of their noon spells in order to do so. But if a prepared caster knows how to cast heal, they automatically know how to cast every other rank of heal, too. One very important exception to this is signature spells. Spontaneous casters can gain signature spells as they level up. When a spell is designated as a signature spell, spontaneous casters can freely heighten it the same as a prepared caster. So, if the angelic sorcerer in the previous example took heal as one of their signature spells, then it would only occupy one of their known spells, and they would be able to heighten it to cast at any rank. Spontaneous casters can also cast a spell using a higher rank spell slot without heightening it.

For example, a sorcerer knows the first rank and third rank versions of Breathe Fire, but not the second rank version.

This sorcerer could cast Breathe Fire using a second rank spell slot, but it wouldn't function any differently than the normal first rank spell. This is different from prepared spellcasters who automatically heighten all their spells to the rank of the spell slot that's being used to cast it.

That's how prepared and spontaneous spellcasters work in general. But there's one more thing to consider. In my experience GMing Pathfinder, something I commonly encounter from new players is their desire to play a prepared spell-casting class using the spontaneous spell-casting rules. This is especially common amongst players coming to the game from fifth edition Dn D. The good news is that there is a way to accommodate these players within the rules, and that is a class archetype found in Secrets of Magic called flexible spellcasting. as a class archetype. This must be declared at first level and it will cost the players second level class feat. With this archetype, instead of assigning a specific spell of a specific rank to each spell slot as part of their daily preparations, these spellcasters create a collection of spells. And then during the adventuring day, they can cast spells from this collection the same as a spontaneous cer where they choose the spell and the spell slot at the moment it is cast. There are however a couple downsides to this in addition to sacrificing the character's second level spell feat. The main downside is flexible spellcasters use a different spells per day table than their classes spells per day table. And the key difference here is flexible spellcasters have fewer spells per rank, maxing at two instead of three. So basically the main benefit of this archetype is the ability to cast spells spontaneously and the main drawback is fewer spells per day. I should also mention that any players interested in this archetype should discuss it with their GM first as it is not a core archetype, meaning they should not assume that it is allowed in every game.

This video has served as a foundation on prepared and spontaneous spellcasting as well as covering spell slots in heightening. In the next part of this series, we will dive into topics such as casting time, duration, and the sustain action. If you have any questions, please leave them in the comments below.

And as always, I want to take a quick moment to thank everyone out there who supports me and this channel. Whether you do that by liking the video, leaving a comment, subscribing to the channel, or subscribing to the Patreon. I appreciate everything you folks do to support me. And with that, thanks for watching. Take care and happy gaming.

Heat.

[music] Heat. [music]