Hello and welcome to Magic in Pathfinder second edition remastered part 4. In the previous videos, we covered magic traditions, how prepared and spontaneous casters use spell slots to cast their spells, and the process used for learning and managing spells. And in this video, we're going to begin discussing spell mechanics, starting with casting time and spell durations.

The cast entry in a spell description lists the amount of time needed to cast the spell. This is usually displayed as a number of actions to be spent in encounter mode, but could also be a number of minutes, such as the case with Raised Dead if the spell is intended to be used in exploration mode. And some spells, like breath of life, can be cast as a reaction. Most encounter spells require two actions to cast, but many spells that cause things to manifest and persist in the environment, like blessed boundaries, summon spells, wall spells, and certain illusions, require three actions. But those are just rules of thumb. Always check the spell description to be certain.

The cast entry in a spell's description tells you how long it takes to activate the spell, and the duration entry tells you how long it will persist after that.

If a spell has no listed duration, then it's instantaneous. It starts and ends on the caster's turn, but may have effects that last longer than that. For example, noise blast has no listed duration and therefore is instantaneous, but the target might become deafened or stunned for 10 more rounds. When an effect lasts longer than the duration, like in this case, the effect is not considered to be magical, and therefore something like dispel magic could not be used to cure the victim's deafness. And when the duration is listed as a number of rounds, the number of rounds remaining decreases by one at the start of each of the spellcasters turns and ends when that duration reaches zero.

Some spells have a list duration which include the word sustain. When you cast a sustained spell, it is due to expire at the end of your next turn after you cast it, unless you spend an action on that turn to extend the spell's duration by another round. To do this, you spend one action to use sustain a spell, which allows you to add enough magic energy and thought into the spell to keep it going for another round. Now, the spell will cease at the end of your next turn unless you spin an action on that round to sustain it again and so on. And note that a common question is what happens if the caster falls unconscious or dies before the duration is up. And the answer is well, nothing happens. The spell continues to persist even if the caster dies before its duration is up.

Think of it like fuel. enough magic fuel was put into the spell when it was cast to keep it going until it runs out when the spell's duration ends. And this also means that by raw, a person could cast a sustained spell, get knocked unconscious, and as long as they get revived before their next turn, they could use sustain a spell again to keep the spell going. Also, most spells that allow you to sustain them have a maximum duration, like 1 minute, that you can't sustain beyond that. And if a maximum duration is not listed, then you can sustain it for up to 10 minutes or 100 rounds, after which you become fatigued and cannot sustain it anymore. If you want to cast it again, you'll need to use a spell slot like normal.

Now, when it comes to sustaining spells, there are a few more questions that seem to pop up. The first of those is, can I sustain multiple spells at the same time? And the answer to that is yes, you can. If you somehow have three active spells that all have a duration of sustain and have not passed their maximum durations, then you could spend three actions and continue to sustain all three of them. The second question is, can I sustain the same spell multiple times in the same round? And the answer to this is also yes. So on the round following the casting of a sustained spell, you can spend three actions to sustain the spell three times and trigger its effect three times. A good example of this would be spiritual arament where each time you sustain it, it attacks another time. However, some spells like floating flame include special notations. Here it says a given creature can take damage from floating flame only once per round. So, there's nothing preventing you from using three actions to sustain floating flame three times. But if you deal damage to a target the first time, you'll need to use the remaining sustain actions to target other enemies.

Some spells like environmental endurance have durations that say until your next daily preparations. What this means is on your next day as part of your daily preparations, you can choose to not regain that spell slot. Doing so basically sustains the spell and extends its duration for another day until your next daily preparations. This lets you sustain the spell over very long periods of time. But if you ever do choose to regain that spell slot during daily preparations, then the spell immediately ends. If you are ever unconscious or dead at the 24-hour mark after the last preparations, you cannot sustain it and the spell ends. Also, the spell must have been cast using a spell slot, and you must use spell slots to continue it.

So, for example, you can't use charges from a staff or use a magic wand or any other magic item for this purpose of extending the duration. Last, if a spell has a duration of unlimited, like embed message, you don't need to reserve spell slots in this way to continue it. If the duration is unlimited, then it lasts until it is either counteracted or you dismiss it. And speaking of dismissing, dismissing a spell allows you to end it early before its listed duration is up.

Doing so costs one action, but note that by raw, only spells that specifically say they can be dismissed can be dismissed. For example, the confusion spell shows this. But if a spell does not specifically state that it can be dismissed, then you'll need to wait until its duration is up in order for it to end.

This video has served as a foundation on spellcasting mechanics such as casting time, duration, and the sustain action.

In the next video of this series, we'll explore spell range and area. If you have any questions, please leave them in the comments below. And as always, I want to take a brief moment to thank everyone who supports me and this channel. Whether you do that by liking the video, leaving a comment, subscribing to the channel, or subscribing to the Patreon, I appreciate everything you folks do to support me.

And with that, thanks for watching. Take care and happy gaming.

[music] >> [music]