Hello and welcome to magic in Pathfinder second edition remastered part one the magic traditions. This is the first part in a series that will examine the full set of spell-casting rules in Pathfinder second edition. In this first video we'll lay a foundation for the series that will be followed by crunchier topics in the weeks to come. And please note that this is an updated version of a previously released video. So much of this may be familiar, but the key difference that you should know between the legacy edition and the remaster edition is that schools of magic were removed with the second edition remaster.

To fully understand magic and Pathfinder, you first need to understand how the four essences of magic and the different magical traditions all work together to form a foundation for spellcasting. Magical traditions describe the source of the spell and also provide some narrative description as to how the spell is cast. Individual spells may belong to several different traditions. They would be the same rank and have the same mechanics, but might be flavored slightly differently. Also, each tradition has its own spell list. A spell list shows which spells at each rank are available to each spellcaster.

A character who has the arcane spell-casting class ability is able to cast spells from the arcane traditions spell list and only spells found on that list unless they gain access to another tradition such as with multiclass archetypes. And gone are the days of spell lists being dictated by class.

Second edition has simplified things by having only four traditions and therefore only four spell lists, but also allows greater flexibility and allowing some classes to choose between which spell list they want to use. For example, a sorcerer could cast spells from any one of the traditions depending on what their bloodline is. The four traditions are arcane, divine, occult, and primal. I tend to think of arcane magic as sort of like magical science.

Those who practice this form of magic do so after years of study. They conduct extensive research, pour over massive toms, and see a kind of order to magical energies that they can manipulate.

Wizards are the most iconic of the arcane spellcasters. Divine spells represent the power of the gods and is often represented as the character praying to their god and asking them to bless or smite their target or they're a physical conduit to channel the wrath of their god. Divine magic could also manifest from celestial bloodlines such as sorcerers who may have angelic or infernal blood running through their veins. Clerics are the best known divine spellcasters.

Then there is primal magic that deals with the natural world, plants, animals, and weather. Primal magic is the realm of druids, sorcerers who belong to the fay and beast bloodlines, and witches with primal patrons. And last is the occult tradition. I find that occult magic is the most difficult to explain.

Player core one explains occult magic like this. The practitioners of occult traditions seek to understand the unexplainable, categorize the bizarre, and otherwise access the ephemeral in a systematic way. And when I read that to players, their response is always the same. They always ask, "What does that actually mean?" Oult magic is the realm of witches, hags, cosmic entities, bizarre beings like great old ones and althus and also spirits, haunted houses and many creatures with the aberration trait. One of my players has taken to calling it spooky magic. And I think in most cases that kind of sums up occult magic nicely. Occult magic is spooky magic. But bards also practice occult magic. And they're not typically considered to be spooky. And this leads one of my groups to refer to oultism as quote other magic. As in there's arcane, divine, and primal magic. And if it doesn't fit into one of those easier to understand traditions, then it's occult or other magic. Whether you want to think of it as a cult or spooky or other magic, just know that this form of magic is primarily practiced by bards, witches, and some sorcerers with the aberant and hag bloodlines.

In addition to the traditions, there are also four essences of magic. I'm not going to spend too much time on this as the essences don't really impact the mechanics of the game, but it is helpful to know what the essences are and how they relate to the four magical traditions. Commonly held beliefs in Golarian say that all of existence and reality is composed of some combination of four essences and those are matter, spirit, mind, and life. The essence of matter or material essence deals with the physical world. The essence of spirit deals with the soul or the non-material and immortal parts of a living being. The mind essence allows thinking creatures to have rational thought and for animals to behave on instinct. And the life essence represents the animating universal force within all living things. Whereas matter provides the base materials for a body, life keeps it alive and well. Now, the reason why it's helpful for players to know about the four essences is because each tradition focuses on exactly two of these. And understanding that relationship will help shed some light on what kind of spells each tradition excels with. The arcane tradition focuses on the matter and mind essences.

Arcane spellcasters have a very, very broad selection of spells, but are extremely limited when it comes to the essences of life and spirit. So, they're not very well equipped when it comes to healing. That's not to say a wizard can't cast some life or spirit essence spells, but there are far fewer spells of those essences on the arcane spell list than spells that deal with the matter and mind essences. The divine tradition is the polar opposite of the arcane tradition in that the divine spell list focuses on the spirit and life essences. Which isn't to say they don't also have spells that lend themselves to other essences, but divine casters really shine when it comes to matters of healing and the immortal soul. The occult tradition focuses on the spirit and mind essences. Therefore, we can expect bards and witches to excel at inspiring allies and demoralizing their foes. And last, the primal tradition is the opposite of the occult tradition in that it deals with the matter and life essences. So, druids have more spells that focus on manipulating the physical realm, like growing claws, summoning animals, or manipulating the weather, as well as spells that enhance the life energy that flows through all living things.

This video has served as a foundation to help understand how magic is organized within Pathfinder. And in the next part of the series, we're going to dive deeper into topics such as prepared versus spontaneous spellcasting, spell slots, and heightening spells. If you have any questions, please leave them in the comments below. And as always, I want to take a brief moment to thank everyone who supports me and this channel. Whether you do that by liking the video, leaving a comment, subscribing to the channel, or subscribing to the Patreon, I appreciate everything you do to support me. And with that, thanks for watching. Take care and happy gaming.

[music]