Hello and welcome to Magic in Pathfinder second edition remastered part 6, casting spells and spell attacks.

Casting spells works much the same way as other activities in the game. You must have the spell prepared in advance or have a valid spell slot available in the case of spontaneous casters. And then you spend a number of actions listed in the spell's description. As mentioned in a previous video, most spells intended for encounter mode require two actions. except for those that cause something to physically manifest and persist in the world, which usually take three actions, but those are just guidelines. So, always check the spell's description. Once the action cost has been met, the spell effect occurs immediately. Some spells are not intended for use in encounter mode and instead have their casting times listed in terms of minutes or hours. You cannot use any other actions or reactions while casting these spells, but the GM might allow you to speak while casting. And although not displayed in the spells description, all spells that have casting times listed as minutes or hours automatically receive the exploration trait. And since they have the exploration trait, they cannot be cast at all in encounter mode. So, if the casting time is 1 minute, by raw, you can't spend 10 encounter rounds to cast it, even though 10 combat rounds equals 1 minute. And if combat breaks out in the middle of casting an exploration spell, then the spell is immediately disrupted.

Some abilities and circumstances can cause a spell to be disrupted and lost.

A common example is being struck by a reactive strike while casting. The triggers for reactive strike are a creature within your reach uses a manipulate action or a move action, makes a ranged attack, or leaves a square during a move action it's using.

The key piece of this that applies to spellcasting is using a manipulate action. The manipulate trait says you must physically manipulate an item or make gestures to use an action with this trait. Creatures without a suitable appendage cannot perform actions with this trait. Manipulate actions often trigger reactions. And you'll notice that if a spell requires actions to be spent casting it, then it almost always has the manipulate trait. And if the spell is cast using a reaction, then it almost always does not have the manipulate trait. So most of the time when you cast a spell in combat, it will have the manipulate trait and therefore may trigger reactions from enemies like reactive strike. And if that reactive strike is a critical hit, then the spell you're casting is disrupted. When a spell is disrupted, it is lost along with all resources that were committed to the casting of that spell. Meaning you lose all of the required actions. If it was a spell that cost three actions and it's immediately disrupted by an enemy's reactive strike, then you lose all three actions. The reactive strike doesn't occur after your first of those actions, leaving you two that you can spend on other activities. All three actions would be lost, and all other resources are also lost. You lose the spell slot that was committed, as well as any material cost for the spell. And when an attempt to sustain a spell is disrupted, not only is that action lost, but the spell you are attempting to sustain immediately ends.

Let's review the rules for targeting.

This applies to all attacks, but can become especially confusing when casting spells due to how people imagine them manifesting within the narrative of the game. where sometimes there's a massive fireball that physically travels to the target and other times a spell manifests like a Jedi mind trick that confuses the target without anything physical passing between the caster and their target. By raw, the rules work the same way in both cases without any special consideration given to spells that have no physical manifestation. When you cast the spell, you must have line of effect to the target. And in order to have line of effect, there must be an unobstructed path to the target. And generally, as long as the target is not behind a solid wall that blocks all physical access to them, then you have line of effect. If the target is only partially behind a solid object, like behind a crate or a port cullis, then there is still line of effect and you can target them, but they also have cover if you cast an area effect with a point of origin on your side of the gate. And the rule of thumb provided by player core 1 is that a 1 ft square gap in a barrier is all that is needed to allow line of effect. But as always, the GM has the final say. Also be aware that when casting a spell with an area effect, the caster needs a line of effect to where they are placing the origin of the effect and all affected creatures and objects needs line of effect to that point. For example, if you cast a fireball spell, you need line of effect to the point of detonation for the fireball. And in order for an enemy to be hit by that fireball, there needs to be line of effect from that point and them. If the path to them is not completely blocked, then there would be line of effect and they would likely receive cover. And note that the rule for line of effect says visibility doesn't matter for line of effect.

Meaning it doesn't matter if you can see the target or not. If the target is inside a building behind a closed window, you may be able to see them, but your line of effect stops at the closed window. Therefore, you wouldn't be able to target them with a spell- like confusion, even though there is nothing physically traveling between you and them. Now, this often raises a lot of questions about line of sight and how it applies. I have another video that goes over the four degrees of perception and how they affect targeting creatures. So, I'm not going to repeat all of that content here, but I will briefly cover a few examples. And if you need more information about how this works, there is a link to that video on perception in this video's description. First, let's talk about what I call general spells.

These are the ones that simply say things like targets one creature. For example, divine lance. For this spell, you need a line of effect to the target, but don't necessarily need to be able to see them. If they have the concealed or hidden conditions, you can still try to attack them with divine lance, but will need to pass a flat check or you automatically miss. Next, there are spells that specify you must be able to see the target. For example, vengeful glare states in its targets entry, one creature you can see. Therefore, you could target a creature with a concealed condition, but would need to pass the DC5 flat check because that target is concealed. But you would not be able to target a creature with the hidden condition because hidden specifically states you cannot see them. Then we have area effects. What happens if you cast a fireball as someone who is standing behind a closed window? Again, your line of effect would end at the closed window. So you would need to place the point of origin for the fireball's detonation somewhere on your side of the window. And by raw, there would be no line of effect to the person behind the closed window. Therefore, they would not need to roll a reflex save or worry about suffering any damage. And again, that's the raw explanation. But that said, GMs are encouraged to adjust the rules however is best for their game. So in this case, the GM might instead grant the target cover and deduct the hit point value of the window from the damage applied by the fireball. And last, some spells adjust or remove the requirement for line of effect. For example, familiar's face has a range of one mile and targets one willing creature that's your animal companion or familiar. So, normally you would need line of effect to your familiar to cast this on them. But the spells text includes a special notation that says you don't need line of sight or a line of effect to your target when you cast this spell. So, in this case, you would only need to be within one mile of your animal companion or familiar to target them with familiar's face.

In the first example, team Pathfinder is battling a tribe of goblins in a corridor. For our purposes, the red bars represent closed doors and the green bars represent open doors. Her friends are taking a beating. So on Kyra's turn, she casts heal using three actions so that it heals all living creatures within 30 ft of her. This is a 30-foot imination centered on her square and again heals all willing creatures within that range. So here we can see all of the targets within the range of that spell. But next we need to apply line of effect. In order for there to be line of effect, there must be an unobstructed path from the point of origin, which in this case is Kaira, to the target. When debating if there is line of effect, I like to apply the flashlight rule, which says if Kyra could shine a flashlight on a target from where she's standing, then there is line of effect. So, let's apply that rule. Starting with the easy ones, Valeros and Mauricio. She easily could shine the light on Valeros. And even though there is a goblin between her and Mara, the goblin doesn't completely obscure her and Cairo would still be able to hit her with a flashlight. So there is line of effect to both of them.

Next, let's consider Ezin and Cion.

Those doors are open and even though it might be difficult, I believe Kyra could shine her flashlight on both of them as well. So they do have line of effect, too. Lim, on the other hand, is behind a closed door. Kyra could not shine a light on him. So there is no line of effect. And it's worth mentioning that it would not make any difference at all if the door was made of glass and was transparent. That would allow line of sight, but not line of effect. It would still be a physical barrier that obstructs the path to the target. That also means that the flashlight rule isn't a 100% perfect illustration, but it works for me in most situations.

Now comes the hard one. Sila, is there line of effect from Kyra to her? By raw, no, there is not. Kyra would not be able to shine a flashlight on her from her current space as Sila is completely obscured behind a wall, but the door is open and she's next to the door. And this is where a lot of GMs will put their own spin on things. Some would say that the radiant light from the heel spell spills through the doorway and around the corner and does affect Sila.

That's not supported by the rules as written, but as a GM, that's absolutely in their right to decide differently.

And what about the goblins? There is clear line of effect to several of them, but will they be healed, too? And the answer is yes, they would. They are living creatures, and one would likely assume they are willing to be healed, so they would be healed. However, clerics can take the selective energy feat to avoid healing their enemies.

In our next example, Kyra casts Noise Blast to attack the goblins. Noise Blast is a 10- ft burst area attack with a 30 ft range. Instead of the spell effect emanating away from her, she instead needs to target an intersection of squares that is within 30 ft of her, and all squares within 10 ft of that point of origin will be within the area of effect. For example, if she wishes to attack the goblins to the left of her, she might target this intersection, which is both within 30 ft of her and there is an unobstructed path from her to it. So, this is valid. And the noise blast would originate from that point and affect everything within 10 ft of it as we see here. But then we need to adjust for line of effect from the point of origin to each of the goblins. These three have clear line of effect to the point of origin and would be affected by the spell. The northern goblin is behind a closed door which means there is no line of effect to them and would not be affected by the spell. Now that might beg the question of is the door damaged and if it is destroyed would any damage left over pass on to the goblin standing behind it? And that's a longer discussion that's beyond the scope of this video. But the rule specifically use an example of a fireball spell and says that a door would stop all damage from it from passing through. But each GM is free to roll however they believe is most appropriate. Now that just leaves the goblin in the bottom left. Is there a line of effect from the point of origin to that goblin? If someone was standing on the point of origin, could they shine a flashlight and hit this goblin? Even though a line from the intersection does run along the right hand edge of the goblin square and through a completely open door, I don't see this as passing the flashlight test and would rule that this goblin is safe from the sound burst spell.

Next, let's consider the goblins to the bottom right of the screen. For our purposes, we'll assume she is aware all of these goblins are grouped there, even if she doesn't have line of sight to them. Now, maybe she just crossed that intersection with her first action and now she wants to attack them with noise blast. If she places the 10-ft burst here, it would hit them all. But unfortunately, in order to do that, she would need to place the point of origin here at this intersection, which she can't do because she does not have line of effect to that point. She needs to have an unobstructed path to the point of origin and that intersection is blocked by a wall. So she would need to place the point of origin here and the bottom two goblins would not be within range of the blast.

Some spells require you to succeed at an attack role to affect the target. Just like weapon attacks, spell attack roles are opposed by the target's armor class.

Spell attacks are a type of attack and therefore they're modified by any bonuses or penalties that affect attack roles. For example, victims of a bane spell suffer a negative one penalty to all attack roles. This does include spell attack roles, too. Whatever effects say that they modify just attacks without specifying a specific type of attack, they affect spell attacks, too. But if the effect calls out a specific type of attack like weapon attacks, then obviously those would not apply to spell attacks. Now, one specific penalty that definitely needs to be discussed is the multiple attack penalty. This applies to all actions with the attack trait. For example, divine lance requires a spell attack role and has the attack trait.

Therefore, it is affected by and contributes to the multiple attack penalty. When making a spell attack roll, your modifier is equal to your spell-casting ability modifier plus your spell-casting proficiency bonus. The ability modifier that is used depends on how you gain access to the spell you're casting. If your class granted the ability to cast the spell, then you use that class's spell-casting ability modifier, which is often the class's key ability modifier. Bars and sorcerers use charisma. Clerics and druids use wisdom.

Witches and wizards use intelligence, and so on.

Innate spells, which we'll talk about in an upcoming video, use the caster's charisma modifier. And other sources of spells can specify what ability modifier to use for their spells. But the rule of thumb is when in doubt, use charisma.

And this can lead to situations where a caster uses different ability modifiers to cast different spells. For example, a cleric would use their wisdom modifier when casting divine spells granted by their class, but would use charisma when casting innate spells. And if that cleric was also multiclust into wizard, then they would use intelligence as the modifier for their arcane wizard spells.

Spell-casting classes also grant proficiency in casting spells, just like how a marshall class grants proficiency in using weapons. For example, starting druids have trained proficiency in spell attacks and in spell DC. And this bonus works the same as any other proficiency bonus. Trained proficiency grants two plus your level, expert grants four plus your level, master grants six plus your level, and legendary grants eight plus your level. And note that in the remaster, spellcasting proficiency levels are no longer divided among the four magical traditions. You only have one spell attack proficiency level and one spell DC proficiency level. And in virtually all cases, they will be the same. Each spell will detail what happens on a hit or miss. For example, divine lance deals 2d4 spirit damage on a hit. On a critical hit, you would double this to 44 damage, and nothing happens on a failure or critical failure.

Some spells will call for the target to make a saving throw, such as a reflex save to avoid a fireball blast or a will save to fight against mental manipulation. The DC for these saves is the same as the caster spell DC, which is easy to calculate. It's your base spell attack bonus plus 10. As a result, if a character can cast spells from multiple sources, they have different DCs, just like their spell attacks use different ability scores and have different bonuses. Each spell's description will either provide details as to what happens on a successful or failed save, or it will refer to it as a quote basic saving throw. These are very common for damaging effects. And what basic saving throw means is if you succeed, you only suffer half the listed damage. If you critically succeed, you take no damage. If you fail, you take normal damage. And if you critically fail, you suffer double damage. With that in mind, let's look at a few common examples. Fireball calls for a basic saving throw. When cast, all targets in the burst area must each roll a reflex saving throw versus the caster's spell DC. On a success, they suffer half damage. On a failure, they take full damage. On a critical success, they take no damage. And on a critical failure, they suffer double damage. You would only roll the damage once though and apply that damage total individually to each target depending on their reflex saves level of success or failure.

All right, now let's break this down with a couple of more examples to illustrate all of this. Valon is a first level elven cloistered cleric of Abidor.

He has a plus two intelligence modifier, plus three wisdom, and plus one charisma. and he has trained proficiency in spell attacks and spell DC and trained proficiency in the religion skill. He wants to cast divine lance at the goblin. First, we need to calculate his spell attack bonus, which is ability modifier plus proficiency. As a cleric, he uses wisdom as his spell-casting ability. He has a plus three wisdom modifier, and he has trained proficiency in spell attack. Train proficiency is two plus level. He's first level, so that's one more for a total spell attack bonus of plus six. When he casts the spell, he makes a ranged spell attack roll 1d20 + 6. And that total is compared to the goblin's armor class of 17. We'll say he rolls an 11 on the die for a total of 17, which is just enough to hit the goblin. Then on the next round, Valon attempts to cast Infeeble on the goblin. In this case, Valon will not make a spell attack roll and instead the Goblin will need to pass a fortitude save. The DC for this save will be Valon's divine spell DC. To calculate this, you simply add 10 to his spell attack bonus of plus six for a DC of 16.

Now the goblin must roll a fortitude save and meet or beat balance divine spell DC of 16 to succeed. On a success, the goblin becomes infeebled one. On a failure, they're infeebled two. On a critical success, nothing happens. And on a critical failure, the goblin becomes infeebled three.

Let's fast forward a little bit. And now Valon is third level. The first thing we want to do is adjust his divine spell attack bonus and DC. Since those are both based on proficiency, and proficiency increases with level, his divine spell attack bonus is now plus 8, and that means his divine spell DC is 18. Also, at third level, he gets to increase one skill to expert proficiency. He chooses to boost his religion skill to expert, which increases his religion bonus to plus 10.

This increase to expert proficiency with religion has no impact at all on his divine spell attack bonus or DC. Even though religion is the key skill for divine magic, it is wholly separate from spell-casting proficiency and valance spell-casting proficiency level is trained. Now, let's fast forward again to fifth level. Every time you increase level, you need to adjust your spell attack bonus and DC. But before we do that, there are a couple other things to consider. First, at fifth level, you get to increase four of your ability scores.

Valon chooses decks, intelligence, wisdom, and charisma. This changes his final ability scores to plus three intelligence, plus four wisdom, and plus two charisma. Next, we need to adjust his divine spell-casting attack bonus and DC. The calculation is ability modifier plus proficiency. His wisdom bonus is plus4 and train proficiency is two plus level. Four + two plus fifth level grants a final divine spell attack bonus of plus 11 and that makes his divine spell DC 21. Also at fifth leveling gets to choose a new ancestry feat. He selects otherworldly magic which lets him cast one arcane cantrip as an innate spell. He chooses electric arc as that spell. And since this is an innate spell, he does not cast it with the same bonuses he uses for cleric divine spells. Those are based on wisdom as the key ability modifier, but innate spells use charisma. So, let's calculate his spell DC for electric arc. Spell DC is 10 plus spell attack. So, let's start there. Spell attack is ability modifier plus proficiency. His charisma bonus is plus two. And he has trained proficiency with spell attacks and DCs, which is two plus level. So two for charisma, plus two for trained, plus five for level equals a final innate spell bonus of plus 9. And 10 more than that makes an innate spell DC of 19. So to sum up, when Valon casts a spell from the divine spell list, he has a spell attack bonus of plus 11 and spell DC of 21. But when he casts electric arc, which is his innate spell, he has a spell attack bonus of plus 9 and spell DC of 19.

Let's jump forward one more time to sixth level with his class feat. This level, he decides to multiclass into wizard by selecting that dedication feat. This now grants him the ability to cast arcane spells at trained proficiency. His spell attack bonus for these spells will be based on intelligence which is plus three. So is calculated as three for intelligence, plus two for being trained, plus six for his level for a total bonus of plus 11, and a spell DC of 21. So, as a sixth level cleric, multiclassed with wizard and able to cast electric arc innately from his ancestry, Valon cast his cleric spells with a plus 12 attack bonus and spell DC of 22. He casts electric arc as an innate spell with a spell DC of 20.

And he casts his wizard spells with a plus 11 attack bonus and a spell DC of 21. three different sources for spell casting with three different attack bonuses and DCs.

And then at seventh level, Valon gains expert proficiency in spell attacks and DCs. This now makes his spell attack bonus with divine spells plus 15 and a spell DC of 25. He can cast electric arc with a spell DC of 23. The reason why it's 23 and not 21 is because when you gain proficiency in spell attacks and DCs from multiple sources, as is the case here with Valon, who gained spell-casting proficiency from his class, from an archetype, and from an ancestry feat, you always use the highest available spell-casting proficiency bonus. So when he reaches seventh level and gains expert spell-casting proficiency from his class, that increases his spell-casting proficiency across the board, not just when casting divine spells. This is a change with the remaster edition. In the legacy edition, you had to track a different spell-casting proficiency level for each of the four magical traditions. So this also means he casts his wizard arcane spells with expert proficiency, too. plus 14 to attack and a spell DC of 24. Always using the same spell casting proficiency level does simplify things, but remember since each source of spellcasting uses a different ability modifier, you still need to track different attack bonuses and DCs.

This video has served as a foundation for casting spells and making spell attacks. In the next video of this series, we'll explore the rules for spells that do not use spell slots, such as cantrips and focus spells, and we'll also explore innate spellcasting, which are spells granted by things other than your class, such as having an ancestry that grants access to spellcasting. If you have any questions, please leave them in the comments below. And as always, I want to take a brief moment to thank everyone who supports me and this channel. Whether you do that by liking the video, leaving a comment, subscribing to the channel, or subscribing to the Patreon, I appreciate everything you do to support me. And with that, thanks for watching. Take care and happy gaming.

[music]