Hello and welcome to Magic and Pathfinder Second Edition Remastered Part Three, Learning and Managing Spells. In this video, we're going to explore how players determine what spells their character knows, how they learn new spells, and how they manage their spells. As with the previous videos of this series, it's worth mentioning that this video will focus on foundational mechanics, and each class likely has its own ways of altering these mechanics, but covering all those exceptions is beyond the scope of this video. Also, this video only discusses spells which use spell slots. Can trips and focus spells will be covered in future videos in this series. And last, it is highly recommended that you watch the previous video on prepared and spontaneous spellcasters before continuing. A link to that video is provided in the description.

Some of the terminology found in the books can be a little confusing. The text refers to spell lists, known spells, spell books, spell repertoire, spells you have access to, and other terms sometimes used interchangeably, which makes it even worse. What you need to know is before you can add a spell to your spell book or to your spell repertoire or whatever other method your class may use for managing spells, you first need to have access to that spell.

The rules refer to the spells you have access to as quote your spell list, which should not be confused with your traditions spell list. The tradition spell lists are printed in player core 1 and expanded in player core 2 and in other source books, but your spell list is unique just to your character. And as such, I will refer to these as your personal spell list just to make that distinction more clear. At character creation, all spellcasters have access to the common rarity spells on their tradition spell list. And note the word common. It's typical for players to believe that if a spell appears on their tradition spell list, then they can choose it when they level up, and that is not correct. You may only select from the spells you have access to, or in other words, you may only choose from the spells on your personal spell list.

By default, each spell-casting character starts with a personal spell list that includes all the common rarity spells found on their tradition spell list.

Using Lim the Bard as an example, when creating him at first level, he has a personal spell list that includes all the common rarity spells from the occult spell list. You can tell which spells are common because they do not have a U superscript or R superscript next to their name, which would flag that spell as either uncommon or rare. So, at first level, Lim has a personal spell list that includes all the occult first rank spells because none of them are uncommon or rare. When he increases to third level, he has access to all the second rank occult spells. But when he reaches fifth level, his personal spell list does not include all of the third rank spells. Why? Because locate, mind readading, ring of truth, and veil of privacy all have a U superscript next to their name, meaning they are uncommon spells. You can also tell they are uncommon rarity by their traits. As such, Lim would not be permitted to add them to his spell repertoire. Instead, Lim would need to do something to gain access to these uncommon spells. Only then would he add them to his personal spell list, which would then make the spells available for his repertoire. And a quick note, some viewers out there may be questioning whether all characters in all circumstances need to adhere to maintaining a personal spell list, as I am recommending in this video. Keep in mind that I'm trying to discuss magic in general terms to avoid having to cover every exception and every special case from every different class. But in general, the classes that do not use spell books or a familiar to manage their spells should probably maintain a personal spell list to record what spells they have access to. It may not be 100% required in all cases, but I find it's better to have it and not need it than need it and not have it. Plus, maintaining a personal spell list can help you understand how this system works.

So, this raises the question of how do you gain access to spells? There are a few general ways that I'll review, but keep in mind that each class may have their own methods of modifying how spells are gained. So, specifics might adjust these general methods. First, the GM can grant access. For example, if your character's backstory is that they are a magical detective, your GM might simply grant you access to locate, which normally would not be available since it is uncommon. Other typical reasons GMs might grant access to uncommon spells is if the character is from an ancestry, culture, nationality, or organization that is thematically tied to that spell.

Second, characters may gain access to spells through class features. For example, clerics gain access to spells from their deity. A cleric who worships abidor would add illusory object creation and planer palace to their personal spell list even though they are not on the divine tradition spell list and planer palace is not common rarity.

Likewise, oracles would add their mystery spells to their personal spell list. Sorcerers would add their bloodline sorceress gifts to their personal spell list if they're not already there. Wizards add their school's curriculum spells and so on.

Note that several class options specifically instruct you to add the spell to the character's repertoire or spell book. In these cases, the spell would be added to both the character's personal spell list and to their classes method of managing spells. And the third method of gaining access to spells is probably the most common after character creation, and that's the learn a spell activity.

This is the universal method for gaining access to uncommon or rare spells or spells that are not automatically granted by your class progression. To use learn a spell, you must first be provided a source from which to learn the spell and the spell must be on your tradition spell list. The source can take many forms. It could be someone who is willing to teach the spell to you. It could be a written text like a spell book or a spell scroll. or it could be a special process provided by your class, like learning a spell from a fellow witch's familiar. Regardless of what form the source takes, you must spend one hour per rank of the spell in the presence of that source, either being taught or studying a magical text and have an amount of materials available per the learning a spell table on page 231 of player core 1. For example, if Lim the bard wishes to learn Ring of Truth, he must first find a source for it, which may be someone willing to teach him or discovering a written copy of it while adventuring. And second, he must have 16 gold pieces worth of materials since Ring of Truth is a third rank spell. Note that the rules do not specify what these materials are or how to find them in much the same way as the crafting rules do not specify what specific materials are needed to craft most items. In general, I suspect the materials are magical inks, special parchments, perhaps incense to meditate on the divine with, and so on. I think in most games, this would be handwaved, and as long as Lim has 16 gold in his pocket, he'd be able to proceed. But some GMs might want to enforce stricter rules, especially in cases where the desired spell is rare or holds a special place in the narrative. Also note that the cost for learning the spell is strictly materials. If learning the spell from someone else, that person might charge for their services. There is no hard rule for this, but I think the income earned table on page 229 of player core 1 is a good guideline. For example, if Limb's teacher is seventh level with expert proficiency in oultism, they might charge two and a half gold for their services. They might also charge the cost of a scroll containing the desired spell. But if that is the case, then GMs make sure that the player gets to keep that scroll afterwards. And after spending one hour per rank of the spell, the player rolls whichever skill is appropriate for their tradition, either arcana, nature, occultism, or religion, and compares the result against the typical DC found on the learning a spell table adjusted by the rarity of the spell being learned, plus two for uncommon spells or plus five for rare spells. So using our example with Lim the Bard, if he was learning Ring of Truth, which is a third rank spell, he would spend 3 hours studying, after which he would roll an oultism check versus DC22 20 per the learning a spell table plus two for being an uncommon spell. If he rolls a critical success, he learns the spell and adds it to his personal spell list. He also gets half of the materials back. In this case, that would be eight gold pieces. If he rolls a normal success, he learns the spell and adds it to his personal spell list, but gets no money back. If he rolls a failure, he fails to learn the spell, gets all of his materials back, and can try again after he levels up. And on a critical failure, he fails to learn the spell, loses half of his materials, and can still try again after the next time he levels up. And note that success means he gains access to the spell, not that he can immediately cast it. In other words, Ring of Truth is added to Lim's personal spell list, but not to his spell repertoire. We'll discuss a little bit later in this video what he needs to do to then add it to his spell repertoire so he can cast it. So, those are the basics of learn a spell. But one question that often comes up when learning spells is if you learn a spell from a scroll, is that scroll destroyed?

This was the way it worked in older editions of the game. If a wizard found a scroll while adventuring, they could either use it to cast the spell from it one time or transcribe the spell into their spell book using a process that destroyed the scroll. But in Pathfinder second edition, that is not the case.

You can learn a spell from a scroll and still use that scroll to cast the spell later, at which point it would be consumed as normal. There is one important exception to this, however, and that is for witches. A witch's familiar may learn spells from a scroll, but must physically consume the scroll in order to do so.

Once you have access to spells per your personal spell list, whether they are common spells you start with, spells provided by class features such as your deity, or you have used the learn a spell activity, your class might then need to have a way of managing them before they can be cast using spell slots. For example, you might carry a spell book or have a spell repertoire.

I'll try to make this brief, but keep in mind again that every class has features and feats that likely modify things, but I will only be covering the general information here. And I will also only be covering classes that have been introduced to or updated for the remaster edition at the time of this recording.

Let's start with the classes that use a spell repertoire. All spontaneous casters use a spell repertoire. So, we're talking primarily about bards, oracles, and sorcerers. A spell repertoire is basically a list of the spells they can cast using spell slots.

If the spell is not on their repertoire, then they can't cast it. And if the spell is not on their personal spell list, then they can't add it to their repertoire. But during the adventuring day, they can spend their spell slots whenever they like to cast spells that are found on their repertoire. Also, the number of spells contained in each cer's repertoire is strictly limited. As the caster levels up, they get to add new spells to their repertoire so they can keep pace with the amount of new spell slots they get. And every time they level up, they can adjust the spells in their repertoire by swapping one spell out that they don't want for another spell of an equal rank. But this is very limited. It's only one spell and only done when leveling up. If they want to adjust their repertoire more than that, they'll need to formally retrain using downtime. This calls for a week of downtime to swap one spell in the repertoire for another of equal rank and may require a teacher and a monetary cost at the GM's discretion. So, in our earlier example of Lim the Bard, who used the learn a spell activity to get access to Ring of Truth, here is the way that he would then move it from his personal spell list to his repertoire.

He could either do that the next time he levels up or he would have to spend a week of downtime retraining and swap out one spell from his repertoire for Ring of Truth. And also note that some classes provide spells that cannot be swapped out. For example, certain spells provided by a sorcerer's bloodline or an Oracle's mystery. They have to stay on the repertoire. But the bottom line is, if your class uses a spell repertoire, you can only cast spells included in that repertoire, and those spells must be spells you have access to, which is why it's often a good idea to maintain a separate personal spell list.

The next method of spell management we should discuss is spell books.

Spellbooks are used primarily by wizards and contain all the spells the wizard is able to prepare each day. Unlike with spell repertoars, there is no hard limit to how many spells a typical spell book can hold, which grants a wizard much more variety in the spells they know, but are limited by being able to only prepare a limited number of spells each day. So, wizards can only cast spells they have prepared and can only prepare spells found in their spell book. And that spell book may only contain spells that they have access to per their personal spell list. But now, let's take a moment to discuss every wizard's worst nightmare. What happens if they lose their spell book? There really are not a lot of hard and fast rules for this, but it appears that should this happen, the wizard would be able to cast any spells they already have prepared, but would not be able to fill their spell slots during their daily preparations. In other words, they would not be able to prepare any new spells. By raw, they would need to use learn a spell to add their lost spells to a new spell book, but would need to find a source for each spell, either a teacher or a scroll, for every spell, even the most common of cantrips, and would need to pay the costs and pass the skill checks. Some GMs may allow wizards in this situation to transfer any spells they currently have prepared to a new spell book for free, but the spell slot is consumed in the process. Other GMs may allow spells that were lost to be added to a new spell book at half the usual cost or without the need for a teacher. And in Pathfinder first edition, wizards could copy their spell books at half the cost of learning spells and then store these backup books in a secure location. These are all special considerations that are not hardcoded into the rules by raw and will come down to whatever your GM thinks is best for the game.

Next, let's talk about witches. Witches basically work the same way as wizards, except instead of keeping a spell book, they have a familiar. Technically, witches themselves do not know any spells, but instead their familiar does, and they must commune with their familiar to prepare the spells they will cast each day. This is why many people refer to familiars as living spell books. And they work pretty much the same way. A witch can't cast a spell they don't have prepared. They can't prepare a spell their familiar doesn't know, and their familiar can only learn spells the witch has access to per a personal spell list. The two key differences for witches, though, are unlike wizards, when they learn a spell from a scroll, that scroll is destroyed in the process. And should a witch lose their familiar or their familiar dies, their patron replaces that familiar the next day, and the replacement familiar knows all the spells the previous familiar did. So there's significantly less danger involved than a wizard who loses their spell book.

Then we have clerics and druids. These are the easiest to discuss because they don't have any special requirements for managing their spells. They don't need to keep a spell repertoire or maintain a spell book or do anything else. They get their spells directly from the gods or by communing with nature. So, if the spell appears on their personal spell list, then they can prepare it. It's it's that easy.

And one last class to consider is the animist. Animists are sort of a hybrid spellcaster with the ability to cast both prepared and spontaneous spells.

The animist draws magic from the divine tradition, but they access it through two different channels. The first is called animist spellcasting. This is their own ability to cast spells through a prepared process similar to clerics.

Their second form of spell-casting is called apparition spellcasting. Animus bond with different spirits and each day they can spontaneously cast spells provided by these apparitions. The spells per day table on page 13 of War of Immortals shows how many spell slots they receive for each type of spell casting. The number before the plus shows how many prepared spell slots they have for their own animous spell casting. And the number after the plus shows how many spontaneous spell slots they have for apparition spellcasting.

So every morning as part of their daily preparations, the animist will prepare divine spells from their personal spell list just like a cleric would and will also choose a limited number of apparitions found on pages 17 through 21 of War of Immortals. Each of these apparitions provide a list of spells and all these spells together form a repertoire from which the animist can cast spontaneous spells each day. And note that the animist can usually choose new apparitions each day and every spell provided by an apparition is considered a signature spell that can be freely heightened. But one important drawback is the animist can only use the learn a spell activity to learn new spells they cast themselves with animous spell casting. These would be the spells that they use their prepared spell slots for.

They cannot simply learn a new spell to cast with one of their spontaneous spell slots. Instead, the animist will need to find and attune with a new apparition that provides the spell they want.

This video has served as a foundation on how spellcasters learn and manage their spells. In the next part of the series, we'll dive into topics such as casting time, duration, and the sustain action.

If you have any questions, please leave them in the comments below. And as always, I want to take a brief moment to thank everyone who supports me in this channel. Whether you do that by liking the video, leaving a comment, subscribing to the channel, or subscribing to the Patreon, I appreciate everything you do to support me. And with that, thanks for watching. Take care and happy gaming.

[music] Yeah.

Heat.

[music]