Hey everybody, Dave here with another Pathfinder rule reminder for you. And today we're going to be talking a little bit about haunts. Uh it's been a while since I've done one of these videos. So if you're not familiar with the rule reminders, these are resources that sort of back up the regular houseplay videos.

a little more informal, a little more casual, and I'll take questions from uh Patreon and from the comments section and just kind of cover anything else that needs to uh be be said to reinforce the already published videos. In this case, this is going to be reinforcing a lot of the information that was included in the uh video on hazards, and I'll make sure I include a link to that video in the description of this video. But um with the the recent release or somewhat recent release of the cinematic starship rules for Starfinder second edition, which heavily use the hazard rules and some questions I've received specifically specifically about haunts, uh I figured it'd make sense just to do one of these quick little videos to talk about it. Specifically, I was asked if I could take a haunt and just kind of walk through it from A to Z. you know, how it works, what's in the stat block, how it would be presented in a a game, and how things might play out. So, um, before we get too deep into haunts, we should probably just talk about hazards in general. Ha, a haunt is a specific kind of hazard. So, maybe we should cover what a hazard is first. Uh, a hazard is basically anything in the game that would be considered an obstacle or a danger to the players that is not a creature. So, uh, most of the conflict traditionally in these games, especially in like a dungeon crawl, is going to come in the form of monsters for the players to fight and vanquish. Uh, those are creatures. They use the creature rules, the creature combat rules. uh NPC interactions would likely use the social encounter rules. So, a hazard is going to be basically anything other than those creatures that is an obstacle or a danger to the player. Now, I might want to put a little asterk next to that.

There are other systems like uh victory point systems, the chase subsystem and so forth that are also used to manage uh difficulties, obstacles, and dangers in the game. but they usually look at things either outside of encounter mode or over several rounds of encounters to accumulate points. Um, but a hazard is going to be something that you deal with in encounter mode uh right along with battling monsters and everything else.

So, our our hazards are are going to fall into basically three broad categories. The first of those is a trap. uh anything that a person is going to create for I'm creating it tonight right now and it's going to either blow up or trigger or activate at a later time usually to defend uh your house a dungeon whatever uh a chest from opening you're probably familiar with traps if you've ever seen Raiders of the Lost Dark you've seen the opening scene those are traps those are hazards uh another type of broad category of hazards is going to be environmental al hazards. Uh these are going to be uh earthquakes, uh tsunamis, a a building falling down around you. Uh typically environmental hazards are experienced by everybody in the um in the encounter, friend and foe, and not just isolated just to a person who quote triggers it or uh just to one side of the combat. It's usually going to be experienced by everybody. Although a lot of times the uh the opponents in an area might have a natural resistance to whatever uh the given environmental hazard is. But the third kind of hazard is the kind we're going to be talking about primarily today which is a haunt.

A haunt is I think of it as especially mechanically speaking is it's like a trap. A haunt is nothing but a spooky trap. Right? So the the the only real difference between a haunt spooky trap and a traditional mechanical or magical trap is traps are intentionally created and they are armed and they are intentionally placed and so forth. And there's usually something physical about them. you can interact with them physically to either disarm them or uh they're going to have a a physical presence in the room. A haunt is more of like the echoes of the dead have tainted an area. It's a spectral phenomenon.

It's going to be something that is typically not uh immediately dealt with in a physical manner. is probably going to be dealt with using other skills. Uh, in fact, it might be even worth looking at the three different kinds of hazards by the kinds of skills that are typically used to uh to disable them.

Although disable is a mechanical term.

Uh, when we're talking about physical traps, you're talking about using thievery disabled device to usually uh disable them to deal with them. uh magical traps you might be able to uh cast a spell magic on, do other things to counteract them. Environmental hazards are typically quote disabled using either your nature skill or your survival skill. And like no, that doesn't mean like I disable the entire avalanche that's coming at me, but using the survival skill, you might be able to find a way to uh you know, lean against a uh side of the mountain in such a way that you're not going to get hit by the brunt of it. That's that's what they mean by disable in a uh environmental sense. And your your hunts are typically going to be dealt with using either religion or a cult. Uh somewhat depending on the nature of the hunt.

Sometimes the the haunts are uh based on sort of undead elements in which case it would be religion. In others is is like the psychic mental anguish of something and in those cases it might be more a cult than it is religion. Um, you also might typically use uh diplomacy or even intimidate in haunts if there is a spirit that is still conscious in the area. Uh, using diplomacy to calm them might be a way to disable that haunt.

And just like all of the hazards, uh, haunts come in two varieties. There's there are simple haunts and complex haunts. Just like there are simple traps, complex tracks traps, simple hazards, complex hazards. The difference between a simple hazard and a complex one is that a simple hazard is one and done. A simple hazard is a landmine. Uh uh uh you either detect the the landmine and you disable it or you step on it and it explodes. But once that happens, it's done. Uh it doesn't persist round after round after round and it doesn't uh have its own place in initiative. It operates on a reaction.

But uh complex hazards are ones that are typically triggered by a reaction or possibly a free action with a trigger.

Uh the main difference there being that if a hazard or a haunt has a reaction in a trigger, it's it's one reaction and then it goes into its uh its routine. If it has a if it's triggered by a free action, then free actions are not limited to only once per turn. So if it has a free action on it, it can do it over and over and over again. I think the example in the book is a is a environmental hazard of quicksand. Uh quicksand is going to trigger and swallow as many people that step into it, not just the first person who does.

So that is an example of why some of these hazards have uh initial triggers that are um free actions instead of reactions. But anyway, a haunt is basically mechanically speaking going to function the same way as any other hazard. It's best in my mind to think of them as spooky traps.

And uh that can get a little weird because they do have elements that are similar to creatures. So there could be a spectral figure or a ghost that's involved in the haunt that you have a conversation with and you diplomacize with. And there also might be other situations where that ghost is in the game as a creature and not as a hazard.

Uh I think that the major distinction between those two is if it's in the if it's in the the game as a creature, it is something that can be defeated through combat. And if it's part of a haunt, it probably cannot be defeated through through combat. is going to be dealt with through some other skills that are laid out in the stat block for that haunt. Um, another thing that's worth mentioning with haunts is haunts typically um always come back. So, uh, you might disable them, but that disable is going to be temporary. Sometimes they they list an area of quote unfinished business or that unfinished business is is implied. And basically all that means is unless you do a specific thing, the haunt will return. You have to put the souls of the spirits to rest in some manner in order to completely deal with a haunt. Whereas the other kinds of hazards typically don't have those kind of restrictions. Um mechanical traps might come back and might have a reset depending on how complex they are. Uh, an avalanche is going to have a is going to cease when it's done running out, but haunts always come back unless uh their unfinished business is dealt with. And sometimes that unfinished business is spelled out in the text and sometimes you have to infer it on your own as a GM. So, let's take a look at um at one haunt uh and walk through it uh top to bottom. And for this I'm going to be using the eternal flame haunt out of GM Core. So at the very top you can see is it is a level seven hazard and it is uh complex and it is a haunt. The first area it says stealth plus 18 expert.

Okay. So, this gets into how do the players realize they're encountering a haunt before it uh before it is triggered and does whatever nasty thing is going to do. So whenever players are in the general area of a hazard and it's up to the GM just to decide what they feel like is the general area. The exact distance is probably going to be different between a small trap and uh again an avalanche, right? So, uh, when players are in the general vicinity of a hazard like eternal flame here, if the stealth rating does not have a minimum proficiency here, it says expert, but if it did not say expert, then everybody automatically gets a free uh perception check against the stealth DC of that hazard to see if they can notice that something is weird going on.

Now, here it says expert, which means your players would not get that free chance to to detect its presence.

Instead, they would have to actively seek the area to detect it. [snorts] So, we can see um well, let's take a look at the description here. The description here says, "A raging spectral inferno arises out of thin air, strengthening all undead creatures within its area.

This haunt most often arises from the charred remains of a group of three people who burn to death whether in a terrible accident or a deliberate execution and their unavvenged souls burn with rage. All right, so we have the charred remains of three bodies and the uh psychic anguish of their death is leaving this this aura in this area that can uh manifest when living creatures are are too close to it. So we could say our players walk into a cave and inside that cave they see three charred bodies.

Now that might be a hint to the players immediately to start making perception checks. So if at that point a player says you know this this doesn't sound right. I want to look around. I want to make a a seek action.

As long as they have not triggered the haunt or the hazard. Uh if we look down a little bit, we can see uh that the uh trigger for this is a living creature approaches within 10 ft of the remains of one of those victims.

So as long as they haven't moved their mini within 10 ft of those bodies and they say I want to make a perception check to seek, then the GM is going to make a secret perception check. uh apply the perception of that character and if it is in this case if that total is a 28 or higher then they succeed. Uh 28 because if your stealth bonus is plus 18 then your stealth DC is 28. Now uh a lot of this comes down to mechanical terminology. I'm not a huge fan of it having stealth written here. I understand why it is uh because of the mechanics of the game, but it that seems to give an impression that like oh the the trap is hiding from people. It's actively sneaking around. And I think some people uh can misinterpret that as meaning that there are three spirit ghosts from the three charred remains and those ghosts are in the room and the ghosts are hiding from the players. And that's not what it means. It just means that uh it's not easy to realize that there's more to these three chart bodies than meets the eye. Now, if that player rolls or or you roll on their behalf, I should say, their perception check to seek and they succeed, then you as the GM have to explain to the player what it is they're perceiving that might tip them off that this is in fact a haunt.

So, you might say even though the the bodies look like they're they are long past burnt, like you know, this this had to have taken place uh a year plus ago, but you still smell you can still smell the fire as if it was live or or maybe you can hear the crackling of the flames or or you can hear just a faint echo of of the anguish of the people who are burning. whatever it is, uh, that would be appropriate to this area to signal to that player that they succeeded their perception check. And they know there's more going on here than just the remains of three bodies.

So, at that point, if they're successful, a player will likely want to know more about this. Now, the perception check might let them know that they're dealing with a hazard of some kind, but that does not tell them necessarily exactly what kind of hazard or haunt and what's going to happen and how and when. So, at that point, a player would likely say, I want to do a recall knowledge check and I want to, you know, exam. I want to see if I could figure anything else about this area.

Now, it's not spelled out um in the stat blocks of what the recall knowledge checks would be, but uh you would base the DC on the level of the hazard. So, this hazard is uh a seventh level hazard. And if we look up in in GM Core, a seventh level hazard has a standard DC of 23. So, if a player wants to know more about what they're looking at here, you would do a recall knowledge check for them. This would be a secret check behind your screen, as all recall knowledge checks are. And uh I typically would use whatever skills are used to disable it as the skill for recall knowledge. So, in this case, it can be disabled with a religion uh skill. A religion is a type of knowledge skill.

So, I would be rolling uh a secret religion check for that player DC23.

Uh I'll also say um something that I do that's absolutely not in the rules. This is not um official ro this is a house rule territory. I also typically allow those same knowledge skills that can be used to disable the haunt to be used to perceive the haunt. So, if someone has a higher bonus to religion than they do to perception, I might roll that as their perception um to let them detect the fact that they're in the presence of a haunt. Uh that seems to make a little more sense in my mind and it also gives a little more room for for niche characters. Like if you only have one religion character in the party, it gives them an extra moment to shine. Uh, so that's something that I do, but I do want to just be clear that that is house rule territory.

That's not official. That's just something that I do. But anyway, you would you would roll that for them in secret. And like with all recall knowledge checks, you would ask them, you know, like, give me a a question you want to you want to have answered. And that question might be, well, um, I want to know, is this area dangerous? And if so, what kind of danger are we facing?

Well, if they roll uh if you roll that secret check for them, religion and beast of DC23, I might say, well, you you're pretty sure you're in the presence of a haunt here, and you you think that the the anguish of the three charred uh people that their spirits are still uh they're they're anchored here to this location. And if you get too close, you might experience a a psychic or illusory manifestation of the same tragedy that killed them. And that might clue that player into, well, I better not get I better not walk any closer or I might catch on fire like they did or what have you. So then let's say that the player wants to make another recall knowledge check. And this time is to figure out, well, what do I need to do to avoid the danger here? How can we, you know, quote disable it? Um, how can we put these souls and spirits to risk so there's no more danger in this room?

And in that case, you're going to then make another recall knowledge check.

Now, because you're making a second recall knowledge check on the same topic, then the DC is going to go up one step, and in this case, it would go from being a normal DC to a hard DC, which adds two to it and raises raises the DC from uh 23 to 25. If that sounds confusing or is not uh clear to you, I'll leave a link in the description to my video that's all about recall knowledge checks, and that might shed some light on it. But basically uh players can continuously do recall knowledge checks over and over again uh until they fail one in which case that signals they no longer can get any more information on the topic or they uh do a uh the highest level of check. Um is that a possible difficulty? I can't remember the difficulty name but once they get to the highest uh difficulty level they can't make any more after that. But anyway we'll we'll say that they want to make another recall knowledge check on this topic. you as the GM, this is a a secret check, like all recall knowledge checks, you roll that behind the screen. And if they get a uh a 25 or higher on that religion check, then you can go over some of the ways to disable the haunt. In this case, it says a DC27 diplomacy expert to temporarily calm the rage of one of the three spirits or a DC30 religion trained to exercise one of the spirits. Three total successes are required to disable the haunt.

Okay, so a couple things here. First of those is that since both of these uh checks have uh uh per uh proficiency requirements in the parentheticals, expert for diplomacy and trained in religion, the characters must meet those minimum proficiency levels in order to do it. Someone who's merely trained in diplomacy would not be able to compel the uh spirits to calm down. uh someone who's untrained in religion wouldn't have the knowledge to exercise them from the uh from the chamber. Uh and some of the other things that talk about here are a couple of the questions that came along with the the request to go over this. The first is does it take two actions to disable a haunt with a knowledge skill? Okay, so it takes two actions to use thievery on disabled device to disable a mechanical trap. Uh we're not using a thievery and disabled device here. Instead, we're using skills. So, does it take uh two actions to um to disable this haunt using religion or diplomacy? Well, if we take a look at the uh section on disabling a hazard, it says the specific skill and DC required to disable a hazard listed in the hazard stat block. Like using disable a device, using these skills to disable a trap is a twoaction activity with the same degrees of success. Though the activity might have different traits determined by the GM. Okay, so this is an area that might be a point of contention with some people. Um, going strictly by a raw reading of this, it says like using disable a device, using these skills to disable a trap is a twoaction activity. Um, a trap is a specific kind of hazard.

To me, that is pretty clear that the two action activity only applies to disabling traps. I feel like if they wanted that to apply to haunts or if they wanted it to apply to the nature and uh survival checks that are used to disable environmental hazards, then it would say like using disabled device, using these skills to disable a hazard is a two action activity. Um but that's not what it says. It specifically says trap. So for me and my reading of that is that if you're using a diplomacy or you are using uh religion to um to disable this haunt then it is one action to use either of those to do so.

However, there is a notation here that says three total successes are required.

So it's not a one and done. So therefore it's going to be a minimum of three actions assuming that you succeed on all of the checks. Now uh another uh question that came up with this was can you use three straight actions if it is uh religion?

Yes. Uh my reading since it is only one action to use these to disable it. It takes three successes. You could you spend your entire turn, your three actions doing uh diplomacy and or religion in any any combination of those. If you succeed on all three, then you disable all of them um right off the bat uh or at least before it's triggered as long as you have not entered within uh 10 ft of of it. Um, and also it says, "Is it standard one success removes the haunt unless otherwise noted?" Uh, yes. If if there's no nothing in the disable area that says that uh it takes multiple successes, like this one specifically says three successes, then it would just be one success to disable the haunt. And one more thing to talk about uh disabling with using these skills. Um, I have I have seen it mentioned sometimes that people confuse using religion here or using a cultism in a haunt to be the same as a recall knowledge check. And so the the thought there is that if you fail one, you cannot make any additional ones. And if you uh and every time that you succeed, the DC goes up. uh when you're using those skills, those knowledge skills to disable, you are not making recall knowledge checks. They're just normal straight up skill checks and therefore they don't have those uh limitations that are applied specifically to recall knowledge. Unless this has the words recall knowledge in the disabled text, then this is just a straight skill check, just a straight normal check, not recall knowledge. you don't need to worry about um about having to increase the DC after every check or having there be a ceiling to it. All right, but let's say that the players in this case did not succeed on their their seek action to detect the presence of danger and the presence of the haunt or they failed at their skill checks to recall knowledge and and one of them walks within 10 ft of one of the three corpses. What happens then? Well, that's where we get into the actual activation of the haunt. So, if we look at uh searing agony here, we see it is a reaction with the mental trait and has the trigger. A living creature approaches within 10 ft of the remains of a victim of the original fire. And the effect is memories of the pain suffered by the fire's past victims assault the triggering creature's mind.

The creature must attempt a DC25 will save and the haunt then rolls initiative. Okay, so uh as soon as that person walks in within 10 ft of one of those corpses, the haunt spins its reaction. That person must make a will save DC25.

If they succeed, they become quickened one or I'm sorry, not not quickened, they become sickened one. Uh if they critically succeed, they're not affected. If they fail, they are sick in two. If they critically fail, they are sick in three and it is offguard for as long as it remains within the haunts area and for three rounds thereafter.

Okay, so um that is laid out pretty clear. Uh but some of the things that people are somewhat interested in are about initiative. Well, what do we roll for the initiative? You're going to roll stealth. So at the top, stealth bonuses plus 18. So once you trigger this, it is going to uh spin that reaction and you're going to roll you're going to roll stealth plus 18 for initiative.

It's slotted in wherever. That means it's possible um it there there it is possible that the turn hat will have already passed and you know you have to wait another round for it to come around. But in a lot of cases this is probably the event that causes the party to roll for initiative. So it won't just be the haunt that's rolling initiative and being slotted in. It's everybody's rolling initiative now. And um and it's doing stealth for it and it goes in wherever wherever makes sense.

Now another thing that uh sometimes comes up is well how many times does it do this reaction? Does it keep doing this this reaction uh every time somebody steps within 10 ft of it? Uh no. on these hazards. The reaction is the initial trigger that sets it off. In the case of a simple hazard, it's a one and done again like a landmine. In the case of a complex hazard like this one, it uh does it once. It triggers you to roll initiative and then it goes into its routine. So, let's take a look at its routine. Says routine one action.

Phantom flames rage across the haunted area, dealing 4d6 fire damage to each living creature within the area. Uh, DC23 basic will save. Undead creatures in the area are infused with flames for the following round. They gain the fire trait and immunity to fire and all their attacks deal an additional 1d6 fire damage. Objects in the area are unaffected. Okay. So, if a player gets within uh so close to it, it's going to initially trigger that reaction and then when it comes to the eternal flames turn in the initiative order, it's going to have one action. Now, the parenthetical one action means it has one action to spend. Some haunts and hazards could have three actions. They could have six actions. They could have who knows how many actions, but uh they're not designed like creatures where the assumption is three actions. Instead, it spells it out here as one action and it spins that one action on causing the phantom flames to rage across the haunted area. Um, so it has one action and it spins it, which means that this is the only thing it does on its turn in initiative and it does it one time. The one action doesn't mean that the phantom flames costs one action. Has three actions. Therefore, it would do this three times. No, it has one action. This costs one action.

Causes the phantom flames to to uh to envelop this area. Now, the one thing about this particular hazard that I don't really like is it makes references to quote unquote the haunted area, but I don't really see anywhere in the text that it very clearly defines what the haunted area is. Uh, I personally am going to take the haunted area to be uh anywhere within 10 ft of the charred remains of any of the victims of the original fire because uh that's what the trigger is. And that is the only thing I see in the this text that talks about area. Um, and it it I could just be blind. Maybe there's something there that I'm missing. If there is, let me know. Uh, otherwise it could just be up to your GM to, you know, make a determination that this entire cave, this room, whatever, you know, it is this building that is haunted. And we're going to call this the haunted area. But mechanically speaking, I don't see anything else here that uh clearly defines what the haunted area is. Um, keep in mind that these are phantom flames. They're not, you know, actual physical flames. Uh, so you're making basic will saves for these and because they are are fantasmal nature objects are not affected. Now, another question that sometimes comes up is with regards to disable uh once it moves into its routine, is it too late to disable it?

Um, and the answer is no. Um, as long as the haunt is active in any form, uh, you can attempt to disable it, not just before it goes off, so to speak. So, you go into a combat encounter, you're going to be fighting some other in this area, probably some skeletons, whatnot.

They're going to be buffed by this uh by by this area. You're going to be dealing with uh suffering damage. On your turn, you can take your actions. And if those can be those can be attacking the the undead creatures. They can be making uh disabled checks, what have you as normal in encounter mode. Um but yeah, you can continue to try to make those disabled checks. And if you do make those uh three successes in the middle of combat is going to shut down the haunt. The haunt just ceases to be active. But, uh, as mentioned before, the weird thing about haunts is they're never permanently, uh, disabled and destroyed, so to speak, unless a piece of unfinished business is dealt with. And so, we see at the very bottom here, it says, "The flames cease one minute after all living creatures leave the area, but after 1 hour, the anger and pain simmer up, and the haunt is ready to trigger again." So, even if you succeed on these these three uh checks to disable it, one hour later, it's going to become active again. And if somebody comes within 10 ft of those bodies, uh they're going to trigger the searing agony uh reaction and then it's going to go into encounter mode and it's going to or go into initiative and it's going to roll initiative using stealth just like before and it just keeps repeating itself.

So, the question becomes, well, uh, if the only way to deal with a haunt is through resolving the quote unquote unfinished business, well, how do we do that with Eternal Flame?

Some haunts might spell it out. Uh, more often you would have like an adventure module, an adventure path that in the body descriptive text of that room, it might tell you what the unfinished business is and how to resolve it outside of this stat block. This stat block is just an example taken out of out of GM course, so it doesn't have all the narrative context and explanation that you would get in a full adventure.

Uh, beyond that, it could just be up to the GM to make a judgment call on this.

Uh, now when I look at the description, the last sentence says uh, and I guess the very last end of that last sentence, it refers to them as being quote unquote unavvened souls that are burning with rage. So, uh, in the absence of any clear text, as a GM, I would probably say if a if a player wanted to do a, um, a recall knowledge and figure out, well, how can I permanently put this to rest?

Well, you're going to have to adventure these these souls. So, you're going to have to find the person, creature, monster, whatever that was responsible for these flames, and you're going to have to bring them to justice, whatever justice may mean, to finally put these souls to rest. And if those souls feel like they have been avenged, then this eternal flame will no longer be a haunt.

You will have purified that area, so to speak. It will no longer be a problem.

Uh, so that's haunts in uh, I guess a pretty big nutshell at this point.

Sorry, I have a tendency to ramble, but a haunt is just a type of a hazard. It functions mechanically like any other hazard. I think of them as spooky traps.

Uh, and that would be a trap that does not have physical elements and physical danger, but fantasmal, spectral, perhaps even psionic, psychic or illusory dangers. Um, if any of this is not clear, if you have any questions, then please leave those in the comments below and I'll try to answer those as I can.

And as always, I want to thank everybody for hanging out with me and uh leaving the comments, clicking the like button, subscribing to the channel, subscribing to the Patreon, all that good stuff. I really appreciate all you folks do to support me. And with that, thanks for watching. Take care and happy gaming.

[music] Yeah.

Heat. [music]