Hello and welcome to Magic and Pathfinder second edition remastered part 7. So far in this series, we've mainly discussed spells that consume spell slots or what we might call regular spells for a lack of a better term. And in this video, we're going to expand that discussion to include other types of spells, including focus spells, innate spells, and cantrips.

A cantrip is a special kind of spell that is usually a little bit weaker than regular spells, but can be cast more often and with greater flexibility.

There are two key features of cantrips that separate them from other spells.

First, cantrips do not use spell slots and therefore can be cast at will an unlimited number of times per day. For example, electric arc. Cantrips have minimum casting ranks just like regular spells. And we can see here electric arc has a minimum casting rank of one.

That's by far the norm. But there are times when a cantrip will have a higher minimum casting rank. For example, Durge of Doom. This is a cantrip available to barge that has a minimum casting rank of third. Although cantrips don't use spell slots, these rank requirements reflect the minimum spell slot you're able to cast. So you would need to be at least a fifth level bard who is able to cast third rank spells in order to cast Durge of Doom. Even though it is a cantrip, that's pretty much the same as regular spells, but what's different is since this is a cantrip, it can be cast an unlimited number of times each day and does not consume any spell slots when doing so. The second key feature of cantrips is that they are automatically heightened to half the caster's level rounded up. In the case of most spell-casting classes, this means you can cast your cantrips at the same rank as your highest spell slots. So, if fifth rank spells are the highest rank spells you can cast, you can cast your cantrips at fifth rank too. That makes this very easy to remember, but may not apply if you don't belong to one of the full spell-casting classes or receive your spells from an archetype or some other source. For spontaneous casters, this means cantrips work like signature spells in that they are freely heightened, but still need to be included in their spell repertoire. And prepared spellcasters still need to prepare their cantrips before they can be cast. But once they're prepared or in a spell rope patrol, the caners can be cast as often as the player likes.

Focus spells are a special kind of spell that is granted by certain class features and feats. Just like with cantrips, they're automatically heightened to a rank that is half your level rounded up and do not use spell slots when they're cast. Instead, the caster must spend a focus point to cast a focus spell. Your focus pool capacity automatically equals the total number of spells you know that cost focus points up to a maximum cap of three focus points. And note that it says spells that cost focus points. Not all focus spells cost focus points. For example, bards and witches both have focus cantrips. Only focus spells that cost focus points count towards the size of your focus pool. Also, be aware that you only have one focus pool. Meaning, if you multiclass and receive focus points from multiple sources, they're all combined into one pool of resources. You don't have to track that you got two focus points from your witch class and one from multiclassing into champion.

Instead, you have a single pull of three focus points that can be spent however you like on the focus spells you have access to from all the different sources. These points are fully replenished as part of your daily preparations, just like spell slots are.

But a major benefit of focus spells is you don't have to wait until the next morning to get them back. The refocus exploration activity can be used to regain spent focus points. This takes 10 minutes after which you regain one focus point. And unlike with the legacy edition in the remaster, there are no limits to this. If you spend all three focus points during an encounter, you can spend 30 minutes after the encounter performing the refocus activity three times to get the ball back. Also, it's worth noting that when a member of a non-sp spell-casting class gains focus spells, for example, monks with the key strike feat, they gain the ability to use the cast a spell activity so they can cast these focus spells. But the ability to cast these focus spells does not make them a quote spellcaster. In other words, if you are a monk who uses focus spells, you do not qualify for any feats or other rules that would require you to be a quote spellcaster.

Innate spells are another special type of spell we should discuss. These spells are often considered to be natural talent and are usually granted by a character's ancestry or by an item and allow a character to cast spells without belonging to a spell-casting class. For example, an elf who chooses the otherworldly magic feat can cast any one arcane cantrip as an innate spell. This represents a natural talent for magic and has nothing to do with their class.

They can be a fighter and still cast a single cantrip thanks to this feat. When you gain access to an innate spell, whatever ability granted that access will tell you how often you can cast it.

For example, other worldly magic lets you cast your innate spell at will, meaning as often as you like. But a dwarf with the stone walker feet can only cast their innate spell, one with stone, once per day. And innate cantrips are automatically heightened as normal for cantrips, but not other innate spells. When you gain access to an innate spell, you can cast it, even if it is a higher rank than you normally would be able to cast. This is especially common with monsters who can cast innate spells. You always have at least trained proficiency in spell attacks and spell DC for your innate spells, which automatically increases to expert at 12th level. This guarantees that non-sp spell-casting classes like fighter remain capable with their innate spells at higher levels without needing a spell-casting class to scale their proficiency level. And you use charisma as the ability modifier when calculating the spell attack bonus and spell DC for innate spells, even if you use a different ability to cast spells granted by your class. See part six of this series of videos for a complete illustration of how that works. I'll include a link to that video in this video's description.

This video has served as a foundation for casting less traditional spells such as cantrips, focus spells, and innate spells. In the next video of the series, we'll explore the rules for rituals, which are spells that are cast in exploration mode with casting times ranging from several minutes to entire days and often require multiple spellcasters to work together. If you have any questions, please leave them in the comments below. And as always, I want to take a brief moment to thank everyone who supports me and this channel. Whether you do that by liking the video, leaving a comment, subscribing to the channel, or subscribing to the Patreon, I appreciate everything you do to support me. And with that, thanks for watching. Take care and happy gaming.

Oh,