10
Pathfinder Chronicles: Gods and Magic
Cayden Cailean
Don’t let rules get in the way of you 
enjoying what is truly good in life.
THE DRUNKEN HERO
God of freedom, ale, wine, and bravery
Alignment  CG
Domains  Chaos, Charm, Good, Strength, 
Travel
Favored Weapon RapierCenters of Worship Absalom, Andoran, 
Galt, River Kingdoms, Shackles, Taldor
Nationality : Taldan
The legends say that Cayden Cailean never meant to become a god. As a hired sword working out of Absalom, 
Cayden was renowned for taking on any job so long as the cause was just and the coin was plentiful. One night in an intoxicated stupor, a fellow drunk dared him to take on the Test of the Starstone . He accepted, 
and 3 days later he emerged from the Starstone ’s sacred 
cathedral as a living god. Amazed that he passed the tests and unable to remember how he did it, he continued in his godly life much as he did when a mortal—fighting for just causes, enjoying various alcohols, and not doing anything he didn’t want to do. In art, Cayden Cailean appears as he did in life, a bronze-skinned beardless man, carrying a tankard of ale in one hand. Some depictions of the Drunken Hero display broken shackles about his wrists, representing Cayden’s escape from the concerns of mortal life. In more heroic art, he is shown defeating swarming devils, all the while grinning happily and hoisting his tankard high.
Cayden is outgoing, friendly, boisterous, unashamed, 
and f lirtatious. He loves good-spirited toasts, friendly bar brawls, bawdy songs, and standing up for the underdog. He loathes slavery, mean-spiritedness, bullying, teetotalers, and restrictive laws and customs. He believes that people would get along better if they could sit down and have a drink, preferably in the company of lovely ladies. A former mercenary, he believes in fair recompense for a job well done, whether paid in gold, drink, or a tumble in the hay with a willing wench. Having had his share of hard times as a mortal, he’s not above helping someone for free now and then or leaving an extra-generous tip for someone in need.
Though his other divine concerns are flexible in 
interpretation, he is as hard as a nail when it comes to a person’s right to freedom. Before the Test, he had been known to leave in the middle of mercenary jobs when he found out his employer was a tyrant or using him to bring harm to decent folk. This gave him a somewhat unreliable reputation, but he refused to go against his own beliefs for the sake of mere coin. Cayden believes that there is no justice in a law that oppresses one man to benefit another.
Cayden Cailean’s direct intervention in the mortal world 
isn’t frequent, but he has been known to prevent a keg from emptying (often to convince good folk to congregate 
a little longer in a place of safety) or push someone 
especially meek to gain a backbone of hardened 
steel at a key time. Those who go against his simple tenets may find themselves ill the next time they drunk, intoxicated when clarity is needed, or frightened by common animals or 
shadows. When he is happy, drinks are more 
savory, the night air feels brisk and smells 
sweeter, and courage burns white-hot.
Cayden’s image is much as he looked in 
life—an average-looking, bronze-skinned 
human, carrying a tankard in one hand, 
often wearing chainmail. Cayden’s Herald is 
Thais, a beautiful woman with five wings and scandalously revealing clothing that consists of little more than blue ribbons. Cayden’s best-known divine servant is Luthier, Knight of the Vinyard, a half-celestial bard and warrior who always seems very drunk.
Cayden doesn’t go out of his way to confront other deities 
but answers if challenged, and he avoids evil gods unless they are directly causing trouble. He is on very good terms with Desna, Sarenrae, and most especially Shelyn (whom he courts and serenades at every opportunity). He has been known to travel with Erastil and share drinks with Torag. He is coolly friendly with Gozreh, thinks considers Irori too stuffy, and Abadar bearable but too tolerant of oppression in the name of progress.
Priests, T emples, and the Church
Cayden’s priests are usually clerics, with a small number of bards, adepts, and druids. His easygoing nature and lack of a central church agency mean that his priests are able to use their discretion when it comes to how to advance his cause in the world. Some are solo crusaders for good, while others found adventuring companies or support border towns in need of faith and comfort. Priests are expected to drink ale, wine, or other spirits on a regular basis, and some take no other liquid in their diet.
Most priests have a skill related to ale or wine. They might 
brew ale or beer, make wine, plant crops for these beverages, or transport or sell spirits. In smaller communities, a cleric might teach farmers to set aside a small parcel of land for barley or grapevines, show them how to brew their own drinks in small quantities, and encourage them to share with their neighbors to create bonds of friendship. Alchemy or potion-making are common pastimes for 