28
Pathfinder Chronicles: Gods and Magic
Norgorber
There is value in the things that others shun 
or conceal.
THE REA pER OF RE pUTATION
God of greed, secrets, poison, and murder
Alignment  NE
Domains  Charm, Death, Evil, Knowledge, 
Trickery
Favored Weapon Short swordCenters of Worship Absalom, Galt, Nex, 
Osirion, River Kingdoms, Shackles, Taldor, Varisia
Nationality  Taldan
Little is known of Norgorber’s life in Absalom before he ascended to godhood through the Test of the Starstone . Members of his debased faith go to great 
lengths to keep his mortal life a secret, using murder if necessary to obscure his origins. Some believe that if the Reaper of Reputation’s true nature were discovered, he would be undone. Of the known Ascended gods, he is the only evil one. In artwork, he is shown only as a featureless, polished black mask, or sometimes as an invisible man dressed in thief’s garb.
Norgorber plays his cards close to his chest, revealing 
almost nothing of his personality so that others cannot glean his motives or plans. He divulges things to his followers in small pieces and generalities, only telling the specifics to favored sons and daughters, and sometimes wiping the knowledge from their minds when the job is done. Beyond these basic ideas, he says little, as he does not want to disclose anything useful to his enemies.
Like a thief in the night, Norgorber is subtle in his direct 
intervention. A pickpocket may find a gold coin in an otherwise poor man’s purse, a spy might overhear a juicy bit of information from an unexpected source, a poisoned weapon may retain its coating for a second attack, or a slain guard might die with only a quiet gurgle. Like an assassin, his anger is carefully measured and strikes suddenly. A thief might find she’s lost the jewel she was supposed to steal, a speaker might completely forget whatever important topic he was talking about, a poisoned blade might nick the hand of even a master assassin, or a skilled murderer might find himself downed with a lucky shot by an alley thug.
Norgorber’s cult splits itself into four groups, with each 
focusing on one of his aspects and ignoring the others. They often wear masks as a symbol of their devotion and to keep their identities a secret (even in Absalom, where their faith is marginally allowed). Despite the division in the faith, Norgorber’s followers still work together in some regards, taking careful actions meant to shape the future, all according to some secret plan. Those who call him the Reaper of Reputation venerate him primarily as the god of secrets and are typically spies or politicians. Thieves’ guilds often venerate him as the Gray Master, and look to his skills 
as a thief more than anything else. Many alchemists, 
herbalists, and assassins know him as Blackfingers and 
see his work in every poisoned meal and venomous 
beast. His most notorious and dangerous cultists are 
the madmen, murderers, and maniacs who call him Father Skinsaw, who believe that with every 
murder, the future is sculpted according to their 
dark god’s unknowable plan.
The Reaper of Reputation cares little for f lashy 
displays of power, so his avatar appears to be a normal 
human dressed in brown and black, always with his 
face concealed or entirely invisible, but always giving the 
impression that he’s actually behind you even when he stands in full view of a crowd. His herald is the Stabbing Beast, a Huge, polished, black scorpion-like creature who can take the form of a black-armored man with a stinging tail . Of the few servants known by name to the faithful, the most popular are Venomfist  (a poisonous water elemental), Secret Shade (a f iendish shadow), and Yellowtooth (a wererat rogue able to take the form of a rat swarm).
Despite being evil, secretive, and dangerous, Norgorber 
is careful to maintain civil relations with most deities. Only Abadar, Cayden Cailean, Erastil, Iomedae, Sarenrae, and Torag refuse to speak with him, and even they have dealt with him in the past through intermediaries. As a master of secrets (whether his own or others), he is often able to use his knowledge to leverage assistance out of those who dislike him, usually for the purpose of striking a common enemy. He has been known to unexpectedly assist those who dislike or oppose him, most likely to achieve a secret goal.
Priests, T emples, and the Church
Norgorber welcomes people from all walks of life into his priesthood. Most are rogues, clerics, bards, or assassins, but shadowdancers, illusionists, enchanters, and more exotic types are not uncommon. A few druids serve Blackfingers for his patronage of poisonous creatures. Depending on which aspect their temple favors, a priest usually has some skill in thievery, information-gathering, poison, or stealth, and those who do not usually fall victim to their comrades before they have the chance to embarrass themselves and the temple. Many lead double lives, acting as normal members of society by day and donning masks at night to enact the god’s will.
Thievery, whether common or elaborate, is a typical 
profession for priests. Some are master imitators, stealing others’ identities and using them to cover up dark deeds or simply taking their valuables from home and vault. 