6
Pathfinder Chronicles: Gods and Magic
Asmodeus
Hail Asmodeus! Deliver us from chaos so 
that we may serve you in eternity.
pRINCE OF DARKNESS
God of tyranny, slavery, pride, and contracts
Alignment  LE
Domains  Evil, Fire, Law, Magic, Trickery
Favored Weapon MaceCenters of Worship Cheliax, Isger, NidalNationality  Devil
Some say that when the world was forged, Asmodeus wrote the contract of creation, agreed to by the gods. His faithful believe that this contract 
holds the key to their lord’s final victory, ushering in a new age under his infernal reign. He believes in strict discipline, unwavering obedience, and the strong ruling the weak. He loves the art of negotiation and delights in deals that appear fair but actually give one party a disparate advantage. The Prince of Darkness expects and appreciates f lattery, though he recognizes it for what it is. Frequently shown as a red-skinned humanoid with black horns, hooves, and a pale aura of f lames, Asmodeus often appears as a foil in art depicting good deities. In his temples, such roles are reversed, with the Prince of Darkness standing tall as the other deities bow before him.
Asmodeus is eloquent, tactful, patient, and incredibly 
brilliant. When crossed he is wrathful, terrifying, and destructive, though these periods are always brief and he quickly resumes his normal demeanor. He believes that without order there would be nothing but seething chaos, that the strong must dominate the weak for the protection of all, and that one’s word is a binding contract with consequences should it be broken.  He opposes freedoms if they interfere with the process of governing and thinks humility is a burden only the weak must bear.
Asmodeus has little interest in subtle encouragement 
outside the bounds of a contract, as he feels excess rewards undermine the need to specify exactly what is desired in any agreement. During the rare times he makes a positive intervention, it is usually by emphasizing secondary rewards or allowing primary rewards to open up new opportunities. When angered or disappointed in a worshiper, he does not hesitate to cause contractual punishments to take their full effect.
Within Cheliax, Asmodeus’s followers are much 
like people in other lands, except they believe in harsh punishments for lawbreakers, think little of minor devils seen in the company of spellcasters, and are openly tolerant of slavery, for these things are a mild price to pay for order in the streets. Outside of that country, most followers of Asmodeus are power-hungry priests, diabolist mages, greedy slavers, ruthless lawyers, wicked enchanters, or decadent nobles in search of secret pleasures.
Most believe Asmodeus’s dark-skinned, f lame-shrouded 
embodiment is his true form, though persistent rumors talk 
of a more fiendish shape with constantly bleeding 
wounds. He is able to assume the appearance of 
any creature and uses this ability to intimidate, 
comfort, or intrigue those he speaks with. He 
favors rubies, and usually appears with a large ruby 
pendant, mace, or even breastplate made entirely 
of a single dazzling gem. His herald changes every few years as various lieutenants please 
or displease him; his current herald is a charismatic, 
unique devil called Baphon who can take the form of 
a blond human youth. As the Lord of Hell, Asmodeus is 
served by all manner of devils and has little use for other 
fiends who do not submit to his infernal hierarchy.
Asmodeus is willing to deal with any god or entity as 
long as he believes the other party will uphold their end of the bargain, which means he is open to all but Calistria, Lamashtu, and Rovagug. Despite ethical differences, he has been a patron of Shelyn, an aide to Nethys, a supplier to Gorum, and an advisor to Iomedae, though it is not something his sometime-partners care to admit. Though he is evil, he is very charming and can often persuade reluctant deities to temporarily set aside their differences with him for the purpose of a mutually beneficial arrangement. When dealing with potential enemies, he is careful to keep the terms of any agreement clear and obvious lest they become too suspicious of treachery.
Priests, T emples, and the Church
Priests of Asmodeus are clerics, blackguards,diabolist mages, or thaumaturgists. Most are careful in their exercise and pursuit of power, understanding that a foolish overextension leaves one vulnerable to those watching for any weakness. Within Cheliax, his priests are the force of order, keeping mortals and weak-minded devils in line or torturing prisoners to extract information. Outside Cheliax, priests work with slavers, bureaucratic governments, despots, and nobles in positions of power (or those hoping to be). They whisper dark promises in the ears of the desperate, arrange meetings between people of inf luence, and travel to bind or destroy rogue fiends (especially demons) to convince folk that their faith supports order and opposes wanton destruction.
Priests see devils as people rather than monsters, greater 
or lesser players in the immense infernal bureaucracy that all right-minded individuals should join. Of course, they see lemures and other minor devils as expendable, and non-lawful fiends even more so. Unlike a typical mage who 