23
1
Gods: Irori
A typical day for a priest begins with exercise, a meal, 
and meditation, repeating throughout the day. Depending 
on their path choice, they may emphasize one of these activities more than others, or avoid certain activities entirely. Some priests spend days at a time meditating, only pausing a few minutes each day for bread and water, while others eat raw meat every hour and spend the rest of their time lifting heavy stones to build strength.
Temples are usually sprawling complexes featuring 
rooms for prayer, sleep, and exercise, where Irori’s faithful study and train night and day in an endless quest to achieve perfection and purify their ki, or lifeforce. The temples are not generally open to the public, and visitors must wait outside lest their presence disturb the energy of those inside.
A temple’s leader 
is the resident who is the closest to self-perfection, normally determined through collective meditation but sometimes through combat. In most cases, the leader is a guide rather than a tyrant, though some temples tend to be more aggressive and evil in their outlook. Irori’s priests have no formal garb other than a long rope of braided hair tied in a loop and worn like a necklace. There is no specific requirement for the hair’s origin; some use their own hair, while others use the hair of a mentor or an exotic creature.
Rituals in the temples usually 
involve a period of meditation or prayer, sometimes with a ritualized consumption of particular foods. Each path may require a different set of holidays; one espousing the in -
vigorating power of sunlight might hold the summer solstice as a holiday, while one promoting the health aspects of raw grains might celebrate harvest day. His holy text is Unbinding 
the Fetters , a lengthy tome 
describing meditation, physi -
cal exercises, diet, and other 
methods to transcend the limi -
tations of the mortal form.
Clerics may prepare astral projection  
and moment of prescience  as 8t h-level 
spells, and transformation  as 
a 6th-level spell. Monks may use quivering palm 
to render a target comatose 
(lasting until the target receives 
a heal, restoration , or greater 
restoration spell) rather than 
kill, chosen at the time the ability is activated. Monks 
may use their wholeness of 
body ability on a willing 
creature as a standard action; the monk must touch the 
target, and the target becomes 
fatigued from this aid.CHANNEL V IgOR
School  transmutation; Level  Clr 3 (Irori)
CASTINg
Casting Time 1 standard action
Components  V, S
EFFECT
Range  personal
Target  you
Duration  1 round/level
DESCRIpTION
You focus the energy of your mind, body, and spirit into a specific part of your being, granting you an exceptional ability to perform certain tasks. When you cast the spell, choose one of the following focus targets. You may change focus targets as a move action. You can only gain the benefit of one channel vigor spell at a time.
Mind : You gain a +4 competence bonus on 
Knowledge, Listen, Search, and Spot checks and 
ranged attack rolls.
Limbs : You gain the benefits of a haste  spell.
Spirit : You gain a +6 competence 
bonus on Will saving 
throws and Bluff and 
Intimidate checks.
Torso : You gain a +6 
competence bonus on 
Fortitude saving throws 
and Concentration 
checks. 
