37
1
Gods: Shelyn
be employed in larger cities or travel in the manner of 
wandering minstrels. Her rangers and druids are usually the types who live off the land, content to watch over places of natural beauty or perhaps hire themselves out to lovers in need of a fresh start in a new place. In general her priests make fine negotiators and teachers, as the people they interact with can’t help but like them and want to please them.
Priests of Shelyn must endeavor each day to create 
something of beauty—typically a work of art or piece of music, but other skills might be appropriate (such as a gardener tending f lowers). They recognize that other mortals can be superficial, rejecting good folk unlucky enough to be unattractive, so priests help these ugly ducklings find ways to accentuate their better qualities, often through the use of clothing or hairstyle.
Her temples are roomy places surrounded by gardens 
and statues, decorated inside with paintings and sculpture and always filled with song and music. They are havens for young lovers and are the sites of many wedding ceremonies.  In many cases the temple art was donated, created, or sponsored by those who found love and approval from the church when all others opposed it.
The church as a whole is disorganized, but as there is 
little need for focused group efforts it doesn’t really hinder their activities. Priests gain status based on their wisdom (particularly in overcoming problems with loved ones) and artistic sense, but otherwise a temple usually makes decisions communally. Those priests who agree with a particular solution help work toward it; those who disagree either try a different method or stay out of the situation. Formal garb for the church is a pair of leggings and a long tunic for men or a calf-length dress for women, cut and tailored to make the wearer attractive but not overtly sexual.
Worship services may be quiet and slow paced or loud 
and upbeat, but they are always heartfelt; dance and music are core to any ritual. The church has no universal holidays, but any anniversary of love is reason for an entire temple to celebrate, and vow-renewals are a common occurrence. Her prayer book is Melodies of Inner Beauty , most of which 
is stories in song form.
Clerics and paladins may prepare charm person as a 
1st-level spell and good hope as a 4th-level spell; they may 
prepare sympathy  as an 8th-level spell but can only cast it 
on works of art. All priests treat charm animal as if it were 
a 2nd-level spell on their class spell list. Bards may learn eagle’s splendor as if it were a 1st-level spell.UNbREAKA bLE H EART
School  enchantment (compulsion) [mind-affecting];       
Level  Brd 1, Clr 1, Pal 1, Rgr 1 (Shelyn)
CASTINg
Casting Time 1 standard action
Components  V, S
EFFECT
Range  close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
Effect  1 creature
Duration  1 round/level
Saving Throw Will negates (harmless); 
Spell Resistance yes (harmless)
DESCRIpTION
The target creature gains a +4 morale bonus on saving throws against mind-affecting effects that rely on negative emotions (such as crushing despair , rage , and fear effects) or that would 
force him to harm an ally (such as confusion ). If the target is 
already under such an effect when receiving this spell, that effect is suppressed for the duration of this spell. It does not affect mind-affecting effects based on positive emotions (such as good hope or the inspire courage  bard ability).
Calm emotions counters and dispels unbreakable heart .
