19
1
Gods: Gozreh
abalone shells, or selling sea ivory or scrimshaw. Some 
spend their entire lives on a boat; others exile themselves to a remote island to commune with their deity.
Gozreh’s temples always open to the sky above and often 
contain some sort of pool or open water at the heart. Coastal temples are usually made of driftwood, often just a wooden wall with various lean-tos on the outside rim. 
The church tends to have periods of stability offset 
by sudden turmoil and reorganization on a local level, though in the long term a charismatic and powerful priest tends to stay at the top of his temple’s organization. When a high priest dies, contenders for his rank dive naked from tall ocean cliffs and swim to shore, with the first to return becoming the new high priest.
Worship services include chanting, wind instruments, 
chimes moved by wind or water, salt, perfume, and drinking clear water or other clear liquids. Farming communities offer sacrifices of meat and grain by leaving the tribute exposed on a high rock to allow the deity’s servants to claim it; some civilized folk perpetuate stories of human sacrifice in lean times, but there are no records of this in the modern era. Gozreh’s Hymns to the Wind and 
the Waves is a collection of susurrant prayers and rules for personal behavior and respect for the natural world.
Clerics, druids, and rangers may prepare 
whispering wind  as a 2nd-level spell and have 
an aquatic variant for communicating with underwater creatures. Druids may prepare water 
walk  as a 3rd-level spell. Rangers may prepare create water 
and purify food and water as 1st-level spells.gOzREH ’S TRIDENT
School  evocation [electricity];
Level  Clr 2, Drd 2 (Gozreh)
CASTINg
Casting Time 1 standard action
Components  V, S, DF
EFFECT
Range : 0 ft.
Effect  trident-like beam
Duration  1 minute/level (D)
Saving Throw none; Spell Resistance yes
DESCRIpTION
A 4-foot-long, blazing forked bolt of electricity springs forth from your hand. You wield this spear-like bolt as if it were a trident (you are proficient with the bolt). Attacks with Gozreh’s trident are melee touch attacks. The bolt deals 1d8 points of electricity damage +1 point per two caster levels (maximum +10). Since the bolt is immaterial, your Strength modifier does not apply to the damage. A bolt can ignite combustible materials such as parchment, straw, dry sticks, and cloth.
