5
Gods: Abadar
1
Priests are not permitted to give money to those in need, 
only to lend it at a fair rate and document the transaction for the church’s record. They are required to tithe, and most invest in local businesses to generate enough income to cover tithing.
A typical day for a priest involves waking, breakfast, 
prayer, reading or hearing the local news, and a period of work. At night, there is a brief prayer before the evening meal, and the evening is reserved for hobbies, family, or other non-work interests. Spell preparation takes place after morning prayers. 
Abadar’s temples are elaborate buildings with rich 
decorations and high, thick, stained-glass windows. These windows have small frames (to guard against thieves) and usually feature vivid yellow glass that colors everything within the church. Many temples have a secure vault for church treasures and wealth, and many also rent space in their vault. Most also serve as a bank, currency exchange, and moneylender, which helps keep interest rates reasonable and consistent.
The church is well 
organized and has a city-based hierarchy. Each city’s temple is independent, encouraging friendly competition between cities to promote trade. Church law forbids the clergy from attacking each other regardless of   political, national, or financial motivations. If two rival cities go to war, the temples become neutral territory, not participating in the struggle and acting as safe havens and mediation centers in the conf lict. Abadar’s primary lay worshipers are judges, merchants, lawyers, and aristocrats. Even the poor worship him, praying he might help reverse their ill fortune.
Ritual garb for ceremonies 
includes white silk cloth trimmed with gold thread, a belt or necklace of gold links bearing a golden key, and a half-cloak of deep yellow or gold. Ceremonial items are crafted out of precious metals and decorated with gems or inlays, though not to the extent that the items become fragile.Services to Abadar include songs with 
complex harmonies, the playing of music 
(usually hammer-based instruments 
such as dulcimers and glockenspiels), and the counting or sorting of coins or 
keys. Services and ceremonies always 
take place indoors, representing the 
shelter of civilization. His holy text 
is the Order of Numbers , each copy an 
elaborately-decorated tome detailing 
the beliefs and taboos of the church.
Clerics of Abadar may prepare word of 
recall  as a 5th-level spell if their designated 
sanctuaries are the temples of their home 
city; paladins may do so as a 4th-level 
spell under the same circumstances. AbADAR ’S TRUTHTELLIN g 
School  enchantment (compulsion) [mind-affecting];   
Level  Clr 1, Pal 1 (Abadar)
CASTINg
Casting Time 1 standard action
Components  V, S, DF
EFFECT
Range  touch 
Target  creature touched
DESCRIpTION
This spell functions like zone of truth , except as noted 
above. Abadar’s symbol appears above the head of the target so all present can see that he is affected by the spell.
bLESSIN g OF THE W ATCH
School  enchantment (compulsion) [mind-affecting]; 
Level  Clr 1, Pal 1 (Abadar)
EFFECT
Duration: 1 hour/level
DESCRIpTION
This spell functions like bless , except as 
noted above. It only works in the caster’s 
home city, specifically referring to areas 
under the jurisdiction of the city watch. 
For example, if the watch patrols a 
shantytown outside the city walls but not the city’s ruined subterranean 
tunnels, the spell 
works in the 
former area but 
not the latter.